

P-00_4218 4/26/04 3:32 PM Page iii
A
Complete
Guide to
Technical
Trading
Tactics
How to Profit Using Pivot
Points,Candlesticks &
Other Indicators
JOHN L. PERSON
John Wiley &Sons, Inc.

P-00_4218 4/26/04 3:32 PM Page viii

P-00_4218 4/26/04 3:32 PM Page i
A
Complete
Guide to
Technical
Trading
Tactics

P-00_4218 4/26/04 3:32 PM Page ii
Founded in 1807, John Wiley & Sons is the oldest independent publishing
company in the United States. With offices in North America, Europe, Aus-
tralia, and Asia, Wiley is globally committed to developing and marketing
print and electronic products and services for our customers’ professional
and personal knowledge and understanding.
The Wiley Trading series features books by traders who have survived the
market’s ever-changing temperament and have prospered—some by rein-
venting systems, others by getting back to basics. Whether a novice trader,
professional, or somewhere in-between, these books will provide the ad-
vice and strategies needed to prosper today and well into the future.
For a list of available titles, visit our web site at www.WileyFinance.com.

P-00_4218 4/26/04 3:32 PM Page iii
A
Complete
Guide to
Technical
Trading
Tactics
How to Profit Using Pivot
Points,Candlesticks &
Other Indicators
JOHN L. PERSON
John Wiley &Sons, Inc.

P-00_4218 4/26/04 3:32 PM Page iv
Copyright © 2004 by John L. Person. All rights reserved.
Published by John Wiley & Sons, Inc., Hoboken, New Jersey.
Published simultaneously in Canada.
No part of this publication may be reproduced, stored in a retrieval system, or
transmitted in any form or by any means, electronic, mechanical, photocopying,
recording, scanning, or otherwise, except as permitted under Section 107 or 108 of
the 1976 United States Copyright Act, without either the prior written permission
of the Publisher, or authorization through payment of the appropriate per-copy fee
to the Copyright Clearance Center, Inc., 222 Rosewood Drive, Danvers, MA 01923,
978-750-8400, fax 978-646-8600, or on the web at www.copyright.com. Requests to
the Publisher for permission should be addressed to the Permissions Department,
John Wiley & Sons, Inc., 111 River Street, Hoboken, NJ 07030, 201-748-6011, fax
201-748-6008.
Limit of Liability/Disclaimer of Warranty: While the publisher and author have used
their best efforts in preparing this book, they make no representations or war-
ranties with respect to the accuracy or completeness of the contents of this book
and specifically disclaim any implied warranties of merchantability or fitness for a
particular purpose. No warranty may be created or extended by sales representa-
tives or written sales materials. The advice and strategies contained herein may not
be suitable for your situation. You should consult with a professional where appro-
priate. Neither the publisher nor author shall be liable for any loss of profit or any
other commercial damages, including but not limited to special, incidental, conse-
quential, or other damages.
For general information on our other products and services, or technical support,
contact our Customer Care Department within the United States at 800-762-2974,
outside the United States at 317-572-3993 or fax 317-572-4002.
Wiley also publishes its books in a variety of electronic formats. Some content that
appears in print may not be available in electronic books.
For more information about Wiley products, visit our web site at www.wiley.com.
Library of Congress Cataloging-in-Publication Data
Person, John L.
A complete guide to technical trading tactics : how to profit using pivot
points, candlesticks & other indicators / John L. Person
p. cm.
“Published simultaneously in Canada.”
Includes bibliographical references and index.
ISBN 0-471-58455-X (cloth)
1. Stocks—Charts, diagrams, etc. 2. Investment analysis. 3. Futures.
4. Options (Finance) I. Title.
HG4638 .P47 2004
332.63′2042—dc22
2003026687
Printed in the United States of America
10 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1

P-00_4218 4/26/04 3:32 PM Page v
Contents
Preface ix
Acknowledgments xv
CHAPTER 1 Introduction to Futures and Options:
Understanding the Mechanics 1
How the markets work, the elevator analogy, product for the times, important
terminology such as margin, contract specifications, and leverage
CHAPTER 2 Fundamentals:
The Market Driver 19
Supply and demand issues, economic growth and productivity effects, major eco-
nomic reports and their in role in market prices
CHAPTER 3 Technical Analysis:
The Art of Charts 33
Western-style bar charts and key reversals, point-and-figure charts that focus only
on price, market profiling, price and time analysis
CHAPTER 4 Candle Charts:
Lighting the Path 43
Enlightening charting technique and its colorfully named patterns—hammers,
stars, spinning tops, dojis, hanging man, and others—powerful reversal patterns,
reliable continuation patterns, key examples in the dollar and bonds
v

P-00_4218 4/26/04 3:32 PM Page vi
vi CONTENTS
CHAPTER 5 Chart Analysis:
Volume, Open Interest, Price Patterns 67
Volume and open interest rules for traders, M tops and W bottoms, trend lines,
measuring patterns, the head-and-shoulders, triangles, pennants and flags, dia-
monds, wedges, funnels, gaps, islands, rounded bottoms, oops signals, opening
range breakouts
CHAPTER 6 Pivot Point Analysis:
A Powerful Weapon 93
The pivot point formula for target trading, calculating support and resistance lev-
els, importance of multiple verification from several sources, the P3T trading tech-
nique, weekly and monthly charts and numbers, risk management techniques
CHAPTER 7 Day-Trading, Swing Trading:
Acting on Analysis 113
Trading to bounce off target numbers, calling tops and bottoms, weekly chart
magnets, harami cross and other candle clues to market reversals, pivot points
save the day, lining up the stars, the verify-verify-verify approach
CHAPTER 8 Technical Indicators:
Confirming Evidence 135
Moving averages and trends, simple rules with averages, tweaking and visualizing
MACD, stochastics, false signals, Gann’s key numbers, Fibonacci ratios and projec-
tions, time counts for cycles, Elliott wave and its clues
CHAPTER 9 Market Sentiment:
What Traders Are Thinking 161
Getting a market consensus from contrary opinion, Commitments of Traders
reports, margin rate changes, Market Vane Bullish Consensusreport, put-to-call
ratios, volatility index (VIX), when the boat is tipping over, media effect
CHAPTER 10 Order Placement:
Executing the Plan 171
Importance of getting an order right, online platform concerns, impact of market
conditions on orders, 14 top order entry selections you need to know, orders in
after-hours trading, spreading concepts

P-00_4218 4/26/04 3:32 PM Page vii
Contents vii
CHAPTER 11 The Mental Game:
Inside the Trader 189
Conquering fear, learning discipline, improving confidence, suggestions for suc-
cess, I’ll-think-about-it syndrome, the paper trader, fear and greed factors, becom-
ing a specialist, setting up an investment diary, setting a positive mind frame,
dealing with adrenaline, establishing goals, positive affirmations, stress relief
techniques, rewarding success to build success
CHAPTER 12 The Tactical Trader:
Tips and Techniques That Work 203
Pyramiding approaches, scale trading, stop reversals, breakouts, momentum trad-
ing, the Friday 10:30 a.m. rule, stop placement near a magnet, trading multiple
contracts
CHAPTER 13 Options:
A Primer 217
What options are and how to use them with futures, simple puts and calls,
options premiums, the Greeks, comparison shopping, strangles and straddles,
eight top option spreads, delta neutral techniques
CHAPTER 14 Closing Bell:
My Top 10 List 235
What the experts suggest, top 10 trading thoughts, measuring success
Glossary 241
Bibliography 253
Index 255

P-00_4218 4/26/04 3:32 PM Page viii

P-00_4218 4/26/04 3:32 PM Page ix
Preface
T
he purpose of this book is to share some of the tips, techniques, and
observations that have worked for me and other highly successful
traders. After nearly 23 years as a registered broker in the futures and
options field, I have come to know quite a few successful traders and have
personally made many successful trades. I have also experienced my share
of disasters and have known traders and investors who were doomed for
permanent failure. Therefore, I am writing this book to help the new indi-
vidual investor understand the mechanics of the markets and to serve as a
refresher for the seasoned veteran trader.
Most of the trade examples demonstrated in this book were direct trade
recommendations from either The Bottom Line Financial and Futures
Weekly Newsletteror those that appeared in the daily Dow report provided
through the Chicago Board of Trade web site and at www.nationalfutures
.com. Rather than demonstrating just one methodology of trading tactics
using pivot point analysis, I wanted to show through various techniques how
you can implement these calculations with other methods and indicators.
Much of what I have learned over the course of 23 years in the industry did
come from hard work and, I must admit, being around the right people at the
right time. I do not want you to abandon your knowledge of traditional tech-
nical analysis techniques. I would just like you to be open to integrating the
numbers to help you confirm, validate, and identify entry and exit points
when trading.
I also want to relay the message that mathematically calculated support
and resistance numbers, or pivot points, work on different markets and
should be derived from different time frames—not only from a daily basis,
but also from a weekly and monthly time frame.
In addition, as most of the readers either know or will find out, trading
is also a combination of strong emotional and personal characteristics.
Through my experience and observations, I want to share and explain what
ix

P-00_4218 4/26/04 3:32 PM Page x
x PREFACE
works and what does not but, more important, to disclose why things go
wrong when they do for those who failed. I believe it is important to take an
inventory, so to speak, when things go right to capitalize on that experience
by examining what you did so the results can be repeated. It is just as im-
portant to examine what went wrong so you can learn from the experi-
ence. By sharing with you the experiences and techniques that I and other
professional traders have learned, the hope is that you will benefit and be-
come a more profitable trader.
I firmly believe that traders from all different levels of experience will
benefit from the information contained in this book, whether it is actually
gaining a new understanding or a new technique or refreshing, reviewing,
or reviving your memory about tactics, strategies, or trading techniques
that an advanced trader may have forgotten.
My professional history may explain my qualifications for writing this
book. I started in this business as a runner on the floor of the Chicago Mer-
cantile Exchange in 1979. To illustrate a reference point in time, the Dow
Jones Industrial Average was near the 900 level. The S&P 500 Index futures
contract did not even exist back then. I became a registered commodity
broker in 1982 and worked up through the ranks in the industry as I was
studying economics at Loyola University. The head of the research depart-
ment at the firm where I worked was George C. Lane. He, of course, is
credited with developing the oscillator system known as stochastics. He
was the first boss who tutored me in the art of technical analysis. Little did
I know at that time that a true master of technical analysis was going to be
responsible for helping to create the intrigue, financial rewards, and pas-
sion for the futures industry that I have had throughout all these years.
Granted, there were other individuals who had an influence on my ca-
reer. Jack F., an old member of the Chicago Board of Trade, helped me un-
derstand the importance of moving averages and the aspect of long-term
charts. Back in 1985 and 1986 in what I call the great bond market boom, he
was instrumental in helping me understand how to ride a strong trending
market. In 1986, I captured what I call a winning tidal wave bull market run
that remains legendary to this day for those who were on board with me, as
well as friends who invested and knew me well.
Another broker at a firm where I worked taught me this strange and
unique method of plotting unconventional trend lines to predict price and
time coordination. Harry A. was his name and this guy would tell you on a
Monday that at 11:40 a.m. Wednesday the high in bonds would be 7812⁄32.
Come Wednesday at 11:45 a.m. or so, the high was 7811⁄32, and I would watch
the price take a disastrous plummet. His method, as I later found out, was
based on Drummond geometry.

P-00_4218 4/26/04 3:32 PM Page xi
Preface xi
I had the privilege to work with a former chairman of the Chicago
Board of Trade, Bill Mallers Sr., who was always looking for a new system.
His thirst for achievement and passion for the markets amazed me. Another
man in the office who worked for Bill Sr. was a fairly quiet, yet confident,
guy. He always had a cigar stub in his mouth—never did smoke but just
chewed on them. He sat near me and time after time would overhear my
recommendations to clients, in particular my points of support and resis-
tance. Almost on a daily basis he had the same target numbers, usually
within a point or tick of mine. That is when we discovered we were doing
the same thing. The amazing thing was he claimed to be a direct student of
Charles Drummond.
I was also fortunate to have been introduced to another fascinating
man, Dan Gramza, an instructor for several futures exchanges and firms
worldwide. His understanding of the market and the relationship between
time, price, and volume is incredible. His teaching also included a wonder-
ful tutoring in candle charting. When I discovered that, he humbly men-
tioned that he knew Steve Nison and “helped” write some of Steve’s first
book. When I got home, I immediately searched for the book in the storage
box and, sure enough, there it was in the acknowledgment section on page
IV. Not only was Dan mentioned in one of the best books on the basics of
candle charting, in my opinion, he helped write chapter 8 in Steve’s book.
My experience has ranged from learning stochastics from the creator
of the indicator, moving averages from a famous floor trader and options
from my own experience, Drummond geometry from two different fasci-
nating people at two different times in my career, pivot point analysis, and
then candle charting techniques from what I would call a master.
In March 2003 I started hosting a radio program titled, The Personal In-
vestment Hour. The format was to invite expert traders and analysts to
share with listeners who they were and what they do to trade successfully.
My guests have included John Murphy, Martin Pring, John Bollinger, Victor
Niederhoffer, Gerald Appel, Linda Bradford Raschke, Larry Williams, and a
fabulous roll call of other top experts. Most guests were thrilled to come on
and share their story and methods. Some of the contents of those inter-
views are mentioned in this book as well. In fact, the interviews were
recorded and archived on my web site, www.nationalfutures.com, where
anyone can go to listen to them.
By writing this book, I can share with you how and what I do to produce
the analysis that goes out every week in The Bottom Line Financial and
Futures Newsletter. I believe my experience in the industry and the tech-
niques that I have developed can be instrumental in helping you to become
a better trader. I believe that you can successfully learn to better integrate

P-00_4218 4/26/04 3:32 PM Page xii
xii PREFACE
the two elements of market analysis: time and price. The elements that I
have focused on from the technical side are:
• Pivot points, a leading price predictor that is based on price points
using different time frames.
• Cycle analysis, which deals with predicting market turning points based
on time.
• Candle chart patterns, which are based on price relationships between
the open, high, low, and close and past chart points such as old highs
or lows.
• Fibonacci ratio corrections and extension studies, which are based on
past price points.
Other studies such as volume are used to gauge the level of participation
and to help uncover the strength or weakness of a market trend.
The last—and maybe the most—important aspect of trading that this
book covers is evaluating the psychological makeup of traders and provid-
ing exercises that can help those who are having a rough period overcome
their problems. Learning who you are and how you react to market condi-
tions is a vital aspect of trading.
I hope that reading this book will help you have a better understanding
of what it takes to trade and to broaden your horizons in investing in the fu-
tures and options market. More important, I want you to know how to learn
to do it on your own. Industry experts agree that about 80 percent of the
people who trade lose. With those odds against you, you need all the help
you can get! Individual speculators need to know that it is a rewarding ad-
venture as long as they can make it against the markets and their biggest
competitor, every other trader. As a zero-sum game, for every loser there is
a winner in futures trading. Or another way to think about it, perhaps, is
that 20 traders are taking the money of 80 other traders.
If you are going to trade successfully, you need to understand that it re-
quires hard work and, above all, to think of trading as a business. As you
read this book, I hope you learn that you do not need to have an IQ of 160
or be a mathematician or possess superhuman skills to be successful. What
you do need to have is a fascination for this business, patience, discipline,
a trading plan, identification of what type of trader you are, risk capital, and
the desire to improve your financial life.
Through the development of technology and the Internet, more infor-
mation is accessible today for the individual speculator than ever before. I
sincerely believe a knowledgeable and educated investor is a better trader.

P-00_4218 4/26/04 3:32 PM Page xiii
Preface xiii
So if you are trading or are getting ready to trade, try to work at con-
tinually learning what is available to you. Cutting-edge technology will con-
tinue to offer more powerful and helpful trading tools to individual traders.
It is up to you to learn how to use them to your advantage. I hope that you
will benefit from the tips and techniques that are mentioned in these pages
and certainly hope that you can apply them successfully in your trading.
JOHNL. PERSON
Palm Beach, Florida
March 2004

P-00_4218 4/26/04 3:32 PM Page xiv

P-00_4218 4/26/04 3:32 PM Page xv
Acknowledgments
W
riting requires intense devotion and discipline; I now have a new
sense of respect for anyone who has ever written any books or
published material, especially on the subject of technical analysis.
I have many people to thank—those who were indirectly responsible and
influential in my education throughout the years and, of course, my family,
especially my wife, Mary, who also tolerated my perseverance for finishing
this book at the expense of ignoring her and asking too many questions
when I had computer problems.
Mom, I know you wanted a lawyer in the family; instead you got a fu-
tures trader. My son, John Paul, who decided not to get in the investment
business; instead, he followed the entrepreneurial spirit and opened his
own chain of cell phone stores. There is still a chance to convert him back
to the investment world: He likes my stock picks!
Special thanks to the Friday night “wanders” group, the best support
group of friends one could ever have. Those I wish to mention directly: Lan
Turner from Gecko Software, Stuart Unger, Barry Isaacson, Cheryl Fitz-
patrick, Rory Obractin, and Jonathan W. Dean from FutureSource; Dan
Gramza for inviting me to his class and taking my calls; Barbara Schmidt
Bailey and Ted Doukas from the Chicago Board of Trade; and James
Mooney, president of Infinity Brokerage Services.
The more analysts and authors I met, the more I found how truly for-
tunate I was in having Pamela van Giessen of John Wiley & Sons as my ed-
itorial director. Thank you, Pam! My special thanks go to Darrell Jobman,
who was directly responsible for orchestrating and directing me through
the whole process of this project and directly responsible for helping to get
this material organized and published.
J. L. P.
xv

P-00_4218 4/26/04 3:32 PM Page xvi

P-00_4218 4/26/04 3:32 PM Page xvii
A
Complete
Guide to
Technical
Trading
Tactics

P-00_4218 4/26/04 3:32 PM Page xviii

CHAPTER 1
Secrets
of Trading
Understanding the Mechanics
In the 21st Century you don't need to be an
expert to invest like a top performer. Let
your money work for you by copying the
best performing traders.
Thinking is easy, acting is difficult, and to put
one’s thoughts into action is the most difficult
thing in the world.
— Johann Wolfgang von Goethe
G
oethe could have been referring to paper trading versus the act of ac-
tually trading when he wrote the phrase above. Trading is exactly that:
putting your thoughts or convictions about a price move into action
by entering an order and placing money at risk.
Investing is a totally different ball game. This book is about trading. The
purpose of trading is to turn over or buy and sell (sell and buy) to build cash
in an account by capitalizing on changes in price. It is not about acquiring
and holding assets or property.
Futures trading is becoming more attractive than ever before as in-
vestors transfer their knowledge and trading skills from the stock market
boom of the late 1990s to more active markets where the idea of creating
wealth is still alive. As the equity markets became consumed by the bear
market mentality liquidation phase, investors with knowledge of techni-
cal analysis and computer skills flocked to open futures accounts to trade
e-mini S&P 500 and e-mini Nasdaq 100 index futures.
Stock market firms and brokers have developed futures divisions, and
day-trading education experts have crawled out of the woodwork to teach in-
vestors the art of day trading those products. Some of the numerous quality
instructors come with a very high tuition cost; others are not so expensive.
1

P-01_4218 2/24/04 2:11 PM Page 2
2 INTRODUCTION TO FUTURES AND OPTIONS: Understanding the Mechanics
Most likely, learning about trading at a reasonable price is why you are
reading this book. However, reading this book alone will not guarantee that
you will succeed in trading. You need to read this book, practice its princi-
ples, and continue your trading education, realizing that the biggest obstacle
in trading is what is between your left and right ears. I believe the techniques
in this book are excellent strategies, and I hope you will apply and benefit
from them. Teaching someone to become a successful trader and letting
them experience the power of financial rewards is a satisfying and reward-
ing pursuit.
As investors look for markets beyond stocks or mutual funds in which to
put their money, they will find a whole new world out there with different
products to trade, among them futures. You may be among those investors
who are afraid of and concerned about trading futures because of what you
heard about them in the past. There are good reasons for being nervous about
treading into any new market. But consider the scandals that have plagued
Wall Street in the post-bubble era and may continue for some time. As history
shows, there have been countless scandals on Wall Street in the past, and
there almost certainly will be more in the future. So-called traditional invest-
ing in stocks is not immune to risk and has its own set of problems.
The question is: Will confidence in America’s corporate leadership return
sooner rather than later? Stock ownership is at the highest level per capita
in America’s history. More investors and private traders participate in the
markets than ever before. In addition to stocks and mutual funds, there are
a host of stock-related derivative products—exchange-traded funds such as
QQQs, options such as the OEX, and many, many others including a rela-
tively new and spectacular market development called single stock futures.
The price direction of equities and all of these derivative instruments boils
down to what will happen to the underlying forces of earnings and growth.
Here is a brief story that may shed light on Americans’ changing view-
point about investing. I was giving a seminar on the futures markets to an
investment club. One older gentleman said his money was safe in the bank,
and he wouldn’t give his money to the stock market again.
I asked, “Why do you feel that way?”
He responded, “They are all crooks!”
“Well, if you think like that, why are you at a futures seminar?” I asked.
“I always thought they were risky, but now I want to learn for myself,”
he replied.
“Futures trading is risky,” I agreed, “but what gave you the impression
not to open a futures account before?”
“My stock broker told me not to trade commodities, that I would lose
my shirt,” he said. “So I kept buying the stocks he recommended, and, in-
stead, I lost my shirt with him.”

P-01_4218 2/24/04 2:11 PM Page 3
Trading Mentality 3
Not a happy story, but the amazing development is that the gentleman
is getting back on the horse after falling off, this time getting his own edu-
cation and finding out for himself whether futures are for him.
This book is designed for people like him and for the more experienced
technical trader as well. If you had a similar experience, then keep reading
and studying and you will continue to increase your knowledge and com-
petence. With that, you will gain confidence. The more knowledge and in-
formation you have about a subject, the better you will become in dealing
with it. As we all know, knowledge is power.
Every investor should know that trading is like riding an elevator. You
get on if you want to go up and then get out once you are where you want
to be. If you want to go up but then realize that you are going down instead,
bail out. Get off the elevator and get back on another ride going up. Risk
management and turnover are the keys to successful trading.
TRADING MENTALITY
Most new investors are not familiar with trading the short side of the market.
I have listened to many novices say that they have a hard time comprehend-
ing how to sell something they do not even own. I always tell them that even
if they buy a futures contract to go long, they are not going to own anything
(except in rare instances where they may take actual delivery of some phys-
ical commodities).
All futures traders are doing is speculating on the direction of prices on
a given product during a given time period. If they are right, they get re-
warded; if they are wrong, of course, they get penalized. Remember the ele-
vator analogy. If a building has 100 floors and you are on the 50th floor, you
can play a guessing game to see if the elevator goes up or down and by how
many floors. You can take the ride, but you don’t have to own the elevator
to do so.
The principle of trading is a very simple concept although we, as hu-
mans, tend to make it quite complicated, especially those who have a hard
time comprehending selling short. Trading is just a matter of interested par-
ties coming together and speculating whether the price of a specific com-
modity is going to go up or down. It is that simple.
Let’s say Bill believes the price of commodity XYZ is going up, so he
buys. A second trader, Pete, believes the price is going down, so he sells
short. One could win, one could lose. Or, believe it or not, both Bill and Pete
can be right and make money during the same day with their opposite po-
sitions. Similarly, both could also lose within the same trading day doing
the exact opposite trade at the same time. It happens all the time. Volatility

P-01_4218 2/24/04 2:11 PM Page 4
4 INTRODUCTION TO FUTURES AND OPTIONS: Understanding the Mechanics
is the reason. Get to know that term as well as whipsaw, choppy, erratic
market behavior,and other terms used in connection with volatility.
The market’s behavior reflects the emotional condition of those who are
doing the trading. The market is the by-product of those who use it. Some-
times it seems like a jungle. It can be financially rewarding and exciting like
discovering a wealth of mineral deposits in a hidden cavern behind thick
brush. It can also be like enjoying the beauty and splendor of a sunset off
the coast of Florida with the sun’s light descending on the low clouds as
palm trees sway in the breeze. But it can also provide some of the scariest
and most financially dangerous adventures you will ever experience.
Trading will probably test your emotional strength and psyche. It will be
the ultimate financial, emotional, and intellectual challenge you will ever en-
counter. Fear, doubt, complacency, greed, anxiety, excitement, false pride—
all can interfere with rational and intellectual thoughts. It is those feelings
that create the jungle, and you may need help to overcome that jungle of
emotion. Conquer those feelings and you may find the holy grail of trading:
a confident winning attitude.
Reading this book will give you the knowledge necessary to improve
your life as a trader. You will be taught to take the emotion out of trading and
to develop a method or trading plan. Remember, “Those who fail to plan, plan
to fail.” I have devoted a chapter to the mental aspect of trading (Chapter 11)
because I believe about 80 percent of successful trading is based on emo-
tional makeup. The way to increase your confidence and competence levels
is through knowledge, and that comes from learning solutions to problems
and then applying or executing what you learn.
HOLDING PENALTY
As you learn different trading styles, remember this key concept: Futures are
a trading vehicle and not—I repeat, not—a buy-and-hold, long-term invest-
ment platform. Do not try to dictate or get married to an idea about the di-
rection you think the market should go. This approach can lead to financial
donations to other traders’ wealth, to an increase in your knowledge about
your brokerage firm’s money wire transaction process, and, worse yet, to get-
ting wiped out.
You need to work at this business. You need to manage and maintain
your positions and monitor price action. Game plans need to be established,
and you will need to be flexible and quick to act. Access and communication
to stay in touch with the market is important when you are trading.
Futures trading should be used to make money on a price movement. It
should not be a personal vendetta, trying to prove that you are right in your
opinion of what the market should do. That outlook is why there are all kinds

P-01_4218 2/24/04 2:11 PM Page 5
Getting Technical 5
of clichés about taking profits. For instance, “A profit is a profit, no matter
how small.” That is a great line, but let’s define “small profit.” Coming to this
business to risk thousands of dollars to make a hundred dollars or so isn’t
the way this trading environment should be used.
Another old saying describes someone who takes small profits and lets
big losers ride: “Eating like a bird and crapping like an elephant.” That is the
essence of a habit you don’t want. If this is a syndrome that you fall into,
Chapter 11 offers exercises to help you work through it. If you catch yourself
getting into that habit, stop trading. Try not to get used to taking small prof-
its constantly and letting losses get large before taking them. You need to
develop good discipline and strong emotional traits. Otherwise, fear of losing
will hinder your performance.
Think about this: If trading were easy and such a sure thing, why would
you have to sign all of those disclaimers about how dangerous it is when you
fill out an account application at a brokerage firm?
So far I have mentioned buying, selling, winning, losing, and human emo-
tions, and I have not yet covered a single aspect of technical analysis. This
approach to the subject reflects my belief about what I consider the most
important aspect of trading: your mental and emotional capacity.
GETTING TECHNICAL
Technical analysis is the study of a market’s price data, which is created by
the emotions of the participants. Price reflects the current or anticipated
value of a market from a supply and demand perspective. Price is the true
and absolute reflection of value, as perceived by the various market partic-
ipants at a particular point in time.
There are a number of different forms of analysis. This book will go
into further detail on most aspects of technical analysis, but my focus is on
market reversals incorporating pivot point analysis with other methods to
nail down time and price predictions.
All traders have access to four common denominators: open, high, low,
and closing price. How you analyze, interpret, and act on the information
available is what gives you a trading style that differentiates you from other
traders. Successful traders interpret correctly and act swiftly. There are five
business days in every week and usually four weeks in every month. One day
within a month will usually mark a price high, another day will generally mark
a low, and the market will close somewhere between those points. Those
facts define the monthly range. The successful trader does not consistently
make a habit of buying the high of the range or selling the low of the range.
But before jumping ahead of ourselves into subjects covered later in the
book, we need to review what the futures markets are all about. Seasoned

P-01_4218 2/24/04 2:11 PM Page 6
6 INTRODUCTION TO FUTURES AND OPTIONS: Understanding the Mechanics
traders may be able to skip over the next sections, but those new to futures
should read them carefully because they contain important concepts and
terminology that make futures different from most other markets.
GETTING INTO FUTURES
For futures traders, the choice of products varies from the traditional to the
exciting new trading vehicles now available. Everyone can relate to many
of these markets that you use every day, from energy products such as crude
oil or natural gas to agricultural markets such as meats, grains, and the so-
called softs (coffee, sugar, cocoa). Prices are dictated by supply and demand
functions that often are affected by weather.
In addition to supply/demand influences, futures markets may provide
a safe-haven security function. Precious metals such as gold may start to in-
crease in price as investors on a global scale believe it is necessary to hold
on to hard assets instead of paper assets in times of political tension or
because they fear potential inflation resulting from the massive liquidity
pumped into the global economy from 2001 through 2003. Financial instru-
ments such as Treasury notes and bonds and currencies are also popular
trading vehicles.
In short, diversified products in all of these areas are available to futures
traders and provide advantages in liquidity and leverage. Many of these mar-
kets also offer direct electronic access to traders. As long as there are prod-
ucts subject to supply/demand and price fluctuations that carry an element
of risk, there will be a role for futures in the business world.
THE FUTURES INSTRUMENT
Many people, including traders, refer to commodities and futures as one and
the same thing. To clarify that point first, the term commoditiesmeans an
actual physical product such as corn, wheat, soybeans, cattle, gold, coffee,
crude oil, cotton, and the like. The term futuresrefers to the instrument or
the contract that is actually traded on these underlying products. Futures
contracts have set standards for quantity, quality, financial requirements, and
delivery points, if any (many futures contracts have cash-settlement provi-
sions so there is no delivery).
As the years have passed, futures contracts have been developed for new
“commodities” such as foreign currencies and a number of financial instru-
ments including interest rate products such as Treasury bonds and notes,
stock indexes such as the S&P 500 index and Dow Jones Industrial Average,

P-01_4218 2/24/04 2:11 PM Page 7
The Futures Instrument 7
and, most recently, an innovative derivative product called single stock
futures.
Unlike equities, where stocks are quoted in dollars per share, different
commodities have different contract values and different point values. The
table of contract specifications for major U.S. futures markets (Table 1.1)
lists the symbols and sizes of various futures contracts. For example, the
contract size for corn is 5,000 bushels. If the value of one bushel is, say, $2.00,
then the overall contract value is $10,000. The full-size S&P 500 index futures
contract has a value of $250 times the index. If the index is at, say, 1,000, the
value of the contract is $250,000, considerably larger than the value of the
corn contract.
Exchanges require a good-faith deposit—usually called margin,
although it does not have the same meaning as margin in stocks—to play
the game. For most futures contracts, you usually need to put up only 3 per-
cent to 10 percent of the total contract value to trade. On the one hand, corn
may have an initial margin requirement of $500 to $600—about 5 percent of
the contract’s value—with a maintenance margin of $300. For that amount
of money, you control 5,000 bushels of corn and can go long, speculating that
prices will climb in the future, or sell short, speculating that the price will
decline. The more volatile S&P contract, on the other hand, has a margin re-
quirement closer to 7 percent or 8 percent or $18,000 to $20,000. The amount
of money required to trade a contract may dictate what you trade if you have
a small account.
It has been argued that physical commodity products will find a fair
value or an absolute value when they reach certain lows based on histori-
cal price comparisons and will never go to zero due to laws of supply and
demand (Economics 101). Unlike stocks, commodities do not declare bank-
ruptcy or go out of business.
The reason futures will always have some value is because they do not
exist solely for traders to bet on price movement. Producers and end users
are also major participants in most futures markets as they use futures to
reduce risk from adverse changes in price and to discover the current fair
value for products they have to buy or sell to stay in business. Traders in
this category are referred to as commercialsorhedgers.
You probably are in a second group: the individual speculator trying to
capitalize on price swings created by the up and down forces in the market-
place. You may be trading from your home as a business or on the trading
floor or trading as a sideline.
A third category of futures traders includes the large speculators or fund
managers who pool investors’ money together. These are sometimes referred
to collectively as the commodity funds.
One advantage of futures trading is that the government gives you
an idea what each of these groups of traders is doing each week in the

P-01_4218 2/24/04 2:11 PM Page 8
8 INTRODUCTION TO FUTURES AND OPTIONS: Understanding the Mechanics
TABLE 1.1 Major U.S. Futures Contract Specifications
Symbola Futures Contract Contract Size Contract Monthsb Exchangec
Interest Rates
ED Eurodollar, 90-day $1,000,000 H, M, U, Z CME
TB Treasury bills, 90-day $1,000,000 H, M, U, Z CME
FF Fed funds, 30-day $5,000,000 All months CBOT
EM Libor $3,000,000 All months CME
TU Treasury notes, 2-year $ 200,000 H, M, U, Z CBOT
FV Treasury notes, 5-year $ 100,000 H, M, U, Z CBOT
TY Treasury notes, 10-year $ 100,000 H, M, U, Z CBOT
US Treasury bonds, 30-year $ 100,000 H, M, U, Z CBOT
MB Municipal bonds $ 100,000 H, M, U, Z CBOT
Indexes
SP S&P 500 Stock Index $250 ×index H, M, U, Z CME
ES E-Mini S&P 500 Index $ 50 ×index H, M, U, Z CME
DJ Dow Jones Industrial Avg. $ 10 ×index H, M, U, Z CBOT
YJ Mini-sized Dow $ 5 ×index H, M, U, Z CBOT
YX NYSE Composite Index $500 ×index H, M, U, Z NYBOT
MV Mini-Value Line Index $100 ×index H, M, U, Z KCBOT
NK Nikkei 225 Stock Avg. $ 5 ×average H, M, U, Z CME
ER Euro-top 100 Stock Index $100 ×index H, M, U, Z NYMEX
FI FT-SE 100 Stock Index $ 50 ×index H, M, U, Z CME
MD S&P Mid-Cap 400 Index $500 ×index H, M, U, Z CME
CR CRB Futures Index $500 ×index F, G, J, M, Q, X NYBOT
GI Goldman Sachs Com. Index $250 ×index All months CME
Currencies
AD Australian dollar 100,000 AD H, M, U, Z CME
BP British pound 62,500 BP H, M, U, Z CME
CD Canadian dollar 100,000 CD H, M, U, Z CME
EC Euro currency 125,000 Euros H, M, U, Z CME
FR French franc 500,000 FF H, M, U, Z CME
JY Japanese yen 12,500,000 JY H, M, U, Z CME
MP Mexican peso 500,000 MP H, M, U, Z CME
SF Swiss franc 125,000 SF H, M, U, Z CME
DX U.S. Dollar Index $100 ×index H, M, U, Z NYBOT
Metals
GC Gold 100 troy oz. All months NYMEX
SI Silver 5,000 troy oz. All months NYMEX
HG Copper 25,000 lbs. All months NYMEX
PL Platinum 50 troy oz. All months NYMEX
PA Palladium 100 troy oz. All months NYMEX
AL Aluminum 44,000 lb. All months NYMEX
YG Gold 33.2 troy oz. All months CBOT
YI Silver 1,000 troy oz. All months CBOT

P-01_4218 2/24/04 2:11 PM Page 9
The Futures Instrument 9
TABLE 1.1 Continued
Symbola Futures Contract Contract Size Contract Monthsb Exchangec
Energy
CL Crude oil 1,000 bbl. All months NYMEX
HO Heating oil 42,000 gal. All months NYMEX
HU Unleaded gasoline 42,000 gal. All months NYMEX
NG Natural gas 10,000 MBTU All months NYMEX
Grains
C Corn 5,000 bu. H, K, N, U, Z CBOT
W Wheat, soft winter 5,000 bu. H, K, N, U, Z CBOT
S Soybeans 5,000 bu. F, H, K, N, Q, CBOT
U, X
BO Soybean oil 60,000 lb. F, H, K, N, Q, CBOT
U, V, Z
SM Soybean meal 100 tons F, H, K, N, Q, CBOT
U, V, Z
O Oats 5,000 bu. H, K, N, U, Z CBOT
KW Wheat, hard red winter 5,000 bu. H, K, N, U, Z KCBOT
MW Wheat, spring 5,000 bu. H, K, N, U, Z MGE
Meats
LC Live cattle 40,000 lb. G, J, M, Q, V, Z CME
FC Feeder cattle 50,000 lb. F, H, J, K, Q, CME
U, V, X
LH Lean hogs 40,000 lb. G, J, M, N, Q, CME
V, Z
PB Frozen pork bellies 40,000 lb. G, H, K, N, Q CME
Foods, Other
KC Coffee “C” 37,500 lb. H, K, N, U, Z NYBOT
SB Sugar #11 (world) 112,000 lb. F, H, K, N, V NYBOT
CO Cocoa 10 metric tons H, K, N, U, Z NYBOT
CT Cotton 50,000 lb. All months NYBOT
OJ Frozen orange juice 15,000 lb. F, H, K, N, U, X NYBOT
LB Lumber, random length 110,000 bd. ft. F, H, K, N, U, X CME
aExchange symbols; data vendors may use other symbols.
bContract months: cExchange abbreviations:
F = January N= July CBOT = Chicago Board of Trade
G= February Q= August CME = Chicago Mercantile Exchange
H= March U= September KCBOT = Kansas City Board of Trade
J = April V= October MGE = Minneapolis Grain Exchange
K= May X= November NYBOT = New York Board of Trade
M= June Z = December NYMEX = New York Mercantile Exchange

P-01_4218 2/24/04 2:11 PM Page 10
10 INTRODUCTION TO FUTURES AND OPTIONS: Understanding the Mechanics
Commodity Futures Trading Commission’s Commitments of Tradersreport.
I cover this subject in more detail later in the book, but the report is sort of
like getting the inside scoop on who is doing what—like a delayed report on
legalized insider trading.
EXCHANGE FUNCTION
Exchanges provide the contracts and the facility (trading pit or computer)
where buyers and sellers can come together to trade, all monitored carefully
by the exchange under the oversight of federal regulators to preserve the in-
tegrity of the market. Futures exchanges make a major point of providing a
level playing field for all participants and ensuring that the integrity and fi-
nancial soundness of the marketplace remains intact. After all, if you have a
winning trade and want to take your profits, you need to trust that the money
you earned and deserve will be available. The futures industry is built on the
principle of integrity.
A few years ago the Chicago Board of Trade celebrated its 150th an-
niversary. Originally established as a centralized marketplace for grain trad-
ing, it has become known for its financial products and is one of the highest
volume exchanges in the world. The Chicago Mercantile Exchange, also
mostly known today for its financial products, and the New York futures ex-
changes also trace their roots to the 19th century. So futures markets have
been around for a long time and will continue to exist in the future.
Just as the Chicago Mercantile Exchange moved from trading eggs and
butter to products such as currencies, the Eurodollar, and stock indexes, ex-
changes are constantly evolving to meet the changing needs of consumers
and producers, adding new and exciting trading vehicles to the futures in-
dustry. For example, milk producers saw a need to hedge their risk against
often-volatile price movement in the cash market as values move from an ex-
treme low to an extreme high. The Chicago Mercantile Exchange recognized
the dairy industry’s needs and created a marketplace for participants to
hedge their production or purchase needs. Major corporations such as Kraft
Foods can now use futures to hedge against losses in the cash market.
DIGGING INTO FUTURES
Futures have a number of features that require more attention, beginning
with the concept of margin. As previously mentioned, margin in futures is
really a security deposit or performance bond.

P-01_4218 2/24/04 2:11 PM Page 11
Digging into Futures 11
Typically, only a small fraction of the contract value (usually 3–10 percent)
is required as a security deposit. With such a small deposit, it takes only a
small price move to produce a big percentage return, providing the power
of leverage for which futures are known.
Exchanges set the minimum performance bond requirements for each
contract and can change those requirements without notice, depending on
market conditions. Brokerage firms may increase the amount of money re-
quired beyond what the exchange has set if additional protection is deemed
necessary. Sometimes this is done if volatility or price swings are larger than
normal and the firm believes clients are at more risk than usual. For exam-
ple, if the Federal Reserve makes a sudden interest rate adjustment, the mar-
ket may panic, causing wild price moves. These volatile price fluctuations
may be the basis for a decision that the amount of money required to trade
should go up (or down) significantly at a moment’s notice.
Although brokerage firms can require more than a minimum perfor-
mance bond, they cannot lower the amount below the minimum require-
ments that the exchanges have set. Most trading firms post their margin
requirements on their web sites. For exact updates, you can always contact
the exchanges for quick access to current information.
The current system used in the industry is known as SPAN margining—
Standard Portfolio Analysis of Risk System, developed by the Chicago Mer-
cantile Exchange in 1988. Basically, it is a computer-generated calculation
that takes into account a trader’s total position to help determine the risk
associated with that position. This position could include strictly futures or
could involve an intricate options and futures strategy.
Margin and leverage give futures an advantage over other investment
instruments, but it is also a two-edge sword. During an adverse price move
against your position, the concept of leverage can turn into a bad situation
as losses can grow exponentially. Overleveraged positions and undercapi-
talized investors do get blown out, that is, positions and accounts can be liq-
uidated with large losses and sometimes can leave large debits. However,
traders do have control over leverage. By simply adding funds to the account
to match the full value of the contracts you are trading, you can set up a sit-
uation where you no longer have investment leverage.
Within the system of margin, you should be familiar with two terms: ini-
tial margin and maintenance margin. Initial marginis the amount of money
you must have in your account to establish a futures position. If the market
moves against your position and the amount in your account drops below the
maintenance margin,you will get a margin calland must replenish your ac-
count to the initial margin level immediately to maintain your position.
We can illustrate the margin system using coffee futures. With coffee
futures trading around 60–65 cents a pound in 2003, the New York Board of

P-01_4218 2/24/04 2:11 PM Page 12
12 INTRODUCTION TO FUTURES AND OPTIONS: Understanding the Mechanics
Trade’s initial margin requirement was about $1,700 and the maintenance
margin was $1,200. Based on a contract of 37,500 pounds and a price of 60
cents a pound, the total contract value was $22,500, putting the initial mar-
gin at about 7.5 percent of the contract’s value. If the price of coffee futures
goes up just 2 cents a pound, you have a gain of $750 or a return of about 44
percent on your initial margin money. However, if the price of coffee drops
2 cents a pound—not an unusual occurrence—you have a loss of $750 or
44 percent.
Some traders think they are required to have $1,700 plus $1,200 or a
total of $2,900 in their account to trade one coffee futures position. This is
not so. The rules of margin are that you need at least $1,700 in your account
to enter a coffee position. If your account balance drops below $1,200 at
any time, as it would with a 2-cent price decline, then you may receive a re-
quest to send in more money to get your account balance back to the orig-
inal $1,700 level.
When a margin call is generated, it is advisable to discuss the situation
with your broker/trading advisor. From a regulatory standpoint, margin calls
must be discussed with the client and met as soon as possible. Generally,
clients are given a reasonable time to meet a margin call, depending on the
amount of money involved and the nature of the situation. Brokerage firms
have the right and the obligation to ensure the financial integrity of the mar-
ketplace and, therefore, may liquidate your positions to ensure that your ac-
count is restored to the proper margin requirements. Thus, it is important
to stay in tune with the markets and in touch with your broker when you
are holding positions.
There are two other ways to meet a margin call: (1) You may liquidate
the position at a loss or (2) the market may make a reversal, trading back
in your favor and taking you off margin call status.
The open trade equity in your account is credited or debited each day
as the settlement price fluctuates. This futures industry practice is called
marked to market. Traders often do not regard a setback as a loss until they
are out of the market, and they are only looking at a so-called paper profit
until they close out a winning position. It is a good idea to have excess cap-
ital in your account beyond what is required. I recommend having at least
50 percent more than the initial margin requirement for each position you
plan to take as a longer-term trade. For day traders, maintenance margin is
sufficient.
Futures contracts often involve large quantities of product with a frac-
tion of the total contract value needed as a good-faith deposit. Not many peo-
ple have $200,000 in cash to purchase a home, so they apply for a mortgage
and put 3 percent to maybe 20 percent down. But buying a home and trading
futures aren’t the same because of the leverage factor, and that is why op-
tions have become extremely popular since the early 1990s.

P-01_4218 2/24/04 2:11 PM Page 13
Contract Specifications 13
Investors who buy options have a right, but not an obligation, to fulfill
the terms of an options contract at a specific strike price. They can buy calls
to take advantage of price increases or buy puts to take advantage of price
decreases. The risk in buying options is limited to the initial premium paid
to acquire the option plus the commission and transaction fees associated
with the transaction; that means no margin calls in the event of a short-term
adverse price move. Simply stated, option buyers can enjoy staying power
and a predetermined risk level.
However, buying options is limited to a certain time period, and if the
market does not move enough in your direction in that prescribed period of
time, your entire premium or investment will be lost.
Chapter 13 is devoted to a comprehensive description of trading in op-
tions and the logical approach for understanding the terms and uses of dif-
ferent strategies.
CONTRACT SPECIFICATIONS
In addition to the margin/security deposit difference, futures contracts have
several other features that make them different from equities, as Table 1.1
indicates. Futures come in different contract sizes and expire in specific
months. Equities all are priced on a uniform per-share basis, and they do not
expire (although a company may go out of business, which could cause your
investment to “expire”). Stocks may also have splits and reverse splits, and
some even pay dividends.
With equities, you can maintain a long-term position indefinitely. With
futures, you can also have a long-term position, but that will require that you
roll over from one contract to the next, liquidating your holding in an ex-
piring contract and establishing a new position in a contract month that is
further away.
Novice traders and even traders coming off an exchange floor to trade
from a computer need to realize that different futures markets trade in dif-
ferent contract months, at different times of the day, and at different ex-
changes. In stocks, you have one symbol for Intel (INTC) or IBM (IBM) or
every other individual stock. In futures, a June contract for Japanese yen is
not the same as a September Japanese yen contract, for example, and they
have different symbols.
First, you need to know the symbol for the market you want to trade—
CL for crude oil, for example. Most quote vendors use the same symbols as
they are pretty much a universal language in the futures industry. However,
some vendors use the symbol CC instead of CO for cocoa or SU instead of
SB for sugar. The mini-sized Dow contract may be YJ, YM, ZJ, or some other

P-01_4218 2/24/04 2:11 PM Page 14
14 INTRODUCTION TO FUTURES AND OPTIONS: Understanding the Mechanics
symbol specific to a data service or brokerage firm. Most applications have
a menu of symbols so you can look up the quotes or charts you want.
Second, you need to know the symbols for each month. This can be
somewhat confusing, especially to newcomers. The list of symbols for each
contract month is shown at the bottom of Table 1.1. Notice that March is
the only month that even contains the month’s symbol, H, as a letter in the
name of the contract month. The trickiness in properly identifying a fu-
tures contract is one reason new traders find futures trading more compli-
cated than equity trading.
It can lead to a hazardous situation when you are rolling out of a con-
tract that has been trading for a while and switching to a new one. For ex-
ample, if you have been trading a June contract and have to shift to the
September contract as the June contract expires, you may still be in the
habit of using June. When placing orders, a slip in identifying a contract can
create problems and cost you money. Placing an order for a June contract
when you really mean to trade the September contract can easily happen in
futures trading if you get careless. There is a window of time when the
June contract will still be trading but not actively as most of the trading ac-
tivity shifts into the next month. For commodities, that time period is be-
tween the first notice day and the last trading day for a contract. Orders will
still be accepted for the expiring month in that time frame, and it will be up
to you to cover your error if your order gets you into the wrong contract
month. (Note: The trading tactics section in Chapter 12 provides a tech-
nique that some big traders and floor professionals use as first notice day
approaches. It may benefit you to be aware of the first notice day trick.)
Third, you may need to know the exchange where the contract you want
is traded. Although a number of futures markets are traded on only one ex-
change, some are traded at several exchanges. For example, if you want to
trade hard red winter wheat, you have to specify the wheat contract traded
at the Kansas City Board of Trade, not the wheat contracts traded in Chicago
or Minneapolis.
Fourth, you may need to be specific about the time of day you want to
trade or the size of the contract you want to trade. Table 1.1 does not show
all the symbols differentiating between the day session’s regular trading
hours and the electronic or after-hours night sessions. Nor are the symbols
given for most of the mini-sized electronic products traded at the Chicago
Mercantile Exchange and the Chicago Board of Trade.
ELECTRONIC ERA
More than 70 percent of all futures markets now trade around the clock, in-
cluding agricultural markets that once were traded only in the pits of an ex-

P-01_4218 2/24/04 2:11 PM Page 15
Electronic Era 15
change during a relatively short daily session. Orders can be placed elec-
tronically on most companies’ online trading platforms, although many firms
do not accept open orders and contingency orders for some markets. Chap-
ter 10 explains the order process and contingency orders. It is also advisable
to check with your trading firm regularly regarding any changes in trading
hours and to see which orders are acceptable.
The electronic product that started it all for the futures industry came
from the Chicago Mercantile Exchange, as you might expect, when it devel-
oped Globex and launched trading in the e-mini S&P 500 and Nasdaq 100
index futures contracts. These contracts have been particularly attractive
to former investors in the stock market and are now among the most actively
traded futures contracts.
The Chicago Board of Trade launched a mini-sized contract based on the
Dow Jones Industrial Average in April 2002, and its popularity accelerated
in 2003, reaching a daily volume of more than 60,000 contracts a year later.
The contract has several key features that make it an attractive trading
vehicle:
• A 100 percent electronic market with 24-hour access.
• Lower margin than other stock index futures in dollars and as a per-
centage of contract value ($2,700 versus $3,563 for the e-mini S&P in the
middle of 2003).
• Simpler calculating and tracking components as the Dow only has 30
underlying stocks to monitor.
• For those with blue-chip stock portfolios, easier hedging by being able
to go short the Dow as easily as going long. Dow futures correlate closely
with the underlying Dow Jones Industrial Average.
• More spreading opportunities because the mini-sized Dow can be traded
against individual single stock futures, Diamonds or S&P 500, Nasdaq
100, or other index futures.
• Smaller minimum price fluctuations. Each point or tick in the mini-sized
Dow is $5. Each point in the e-mini S&P is $50, with the minimum tick
size a quarter of a point or $12.50. The two contracts trade in about a
10-to-1 relationship—a 10-point move in the e-mini S&P and a 100-point
move in the mini-sized Dow are each worth $500. A move of that size
would equate to an 18.52 percent gain for the mini-sized Dow versus a 14
percent gain for the e-mini S&P, using the margin amounts previously
mentioned.
Perhaps the biggest attraction of the mini-sized Dow is that it is based
on the best-known U.S. stock market barometer, which is more than a cen-
tury old and recognized around the world. When you ask how the stock mar-
ket did today, most people think of the Dow.

P-01_4218 2/24/04 2:11 PM Page 16
16 INTRODUCTION TO FUTURES AND OPTIONS: Understanding the Mechanics
INVESTMENT REVOLUTION?
Next to the electronically traded stock index contracts, probably the most
exciting new futures market area is single stock futures (SSF). SSFs were
launched on two new U.S. exchanges on November 8, 2002, after a two-
decade moratorium on that type of contract. They had been trading on for-
eign exchanges with moderate success for some time but had been banned
in the United States by an agreement that allowed trading to begin in stock
index futures in 1982. The realization that the United States might lose out
on market share to foreign competitors in a potential major new market
was high on the list of factors that prompted politicians and regulators at
the Securities and Exchange Commission and Commodity Futures Trading
Commission to finally resolve jurisdictional issues to allow trading in SSFs.
SSFs are an innovative product and could change the way the world in-
vests on Wall Street in the future. Investors who have limited their invest-
ments to the stock market especially may benefit from this new market.
Imagine having the leverage to trade 100 shares of a popular stock for only
a 20 percent margin requirement and not having to pay a stock firm the bro-
ker loan rate to sell a stock short (if they can loan it to you at all). Assume,
for example, that Microsoft is priced at $25 per share. The futures contract
size is 100 shares so the contract value is $2,500. With an initial margin re-
quirement of 20 percent of the value of the contract, you have to put up only
$500 to either buy or sell Microsoft futures instead of $1,250 it would take
to buy 100 shares of Microsoft shares at the minimum margin rate in the
stock market.
With SSFs you can open a futures trading account, buy a cash Treasury
bill, and trade a broad range of markets beyond SSFs while earning interest
instead of paying interest. The best part is being able to go long or short with-
out prejudice and having access to the market by trading from your com-
puter at home or work. These developments may not make broker-dealers
happy but are good news for individual traders.
BULL MARKET FOR FUTURES
These stock-related trading vehicles reinforce my optimism about the pop-
ularity of futures trading, not only in the United States but also around the
globe as people attempt to increase their wealth and raise their standard of
living. I believe the explosive growth in futures has come out of the dismal
losses many investors suffered during the great bear market in equities since
the peak in 2000.
Investors are now becoming more educated and open to other opportu-
nities rather than limiting themselves to recommendations from their stock-

P-01_4218 2/24/04 2:11 PM Page 17
Bull Market for Futures 17
broker or investment advisor. The story earlier in this chapter about the
gentleman who never traded futures because his stockbroker said he would
lose his shirt is a testimonial to the fact that more and more investors—
most likely, people just like you—want to learn more.
Here is another example. I gave a seminar presentation in August 2002
to the Chicago chapter of the Cornerstone Investors Group, speaking to
about 70 people. I asked how many folks in the audience were trading fu-
tures. I believe about three people raised their hands, and I think two were
clients of mine.
The president of the group, Mark Anderson, invited me back in April
2003, reminding me that I said to his group in 2002, “If the balance of you
are not trading futures, then you will be sooner or later.” Just eight months
after that 2002 seminar, I asked the same question at the April seminar,
which had about 85 people. First, the investment club membership had
grown and, second, it seemed like almost everyone raised their hands. I was
shocked!
What happened here? Well, this investor group had started to learn and
discovered the benefits of trading futures and how to apply technical analy-
sis to the markets. They were taking control of their own financial destiny.
A whole lot of people are now interested in the futures markets and not
just from the town of Schaumburg, Illinois, or in Tampa Bay, Florida, where
the Cornerstone group was founded. The reach of traders wanting to learn
this form of derivative trading stretches to Ireland, England, Europe, Asia,
Australia—worldwide. I hope this book helps to keep you focused and fi-
nancially prepared for the years ahead and helps you with the process of
continually learning the ebb and flow of the markets.

P-01_4218 2/24/04 2:11 PM Page 18

P-02_4218 2/24/04 2:13 PM Page 19
CHAPTER 2
Fundamentals
The Market Driver
Everyone needs constant education and training.
The more you keep yourself informed, the better
honed your instincts and decision-making
capabilities.
—Linda Conway
T
he term fundamental analysis refers to the study of tangible infor-
mation about a market such as supply and demand statistics and ex-
pectations about what these numbers might be. Markets are a two-way
street: Supply and demand are key factors in determining price, and price
often is a factor in supply and demand.
Supply and demand comes from the perceived value that is placed on a
stock, commodity, or any derivative product. In its simplest definition, sup-
plyis the amount of a given stock, product, or commodity that is available
to the market, either in excess or limited at a given price depending on the
number of sellers. Price establishes a resistance level when the supply of a
particular product or stock is adequately provided.
Demand,the amount of buying or lack of buying, plays an integral role
in establishing how high or low prices can go and is generated by buyers.
Demand establishes a support level for prices.
Numerous events directly affect the outcome of both supply and de-
mand, but some are more critical than others. For example, for agriculture
products from grains to livestock, weather is a crucial element in determin-
ing supply. In the event of a drought, grain production could be in short
supply and livestock could suffer weight loss or be forced to market in
large numbers if it appears scarce feed may become too expensive. In harsh
19

P-02_4218 2/24/04 2:13 PM Page 20
20 FUNDAMENTALS: The Market Driver
winters, grain movement could be slowed and livestock could perish, re-
sulting in supply disruptions that could cause prices to go higher in a steady
or rising demand environment.
THE FED FACTOR
In the financial arena, when the Federal Reserve lowers short-term interest
rates, economic activity theoretically accelerates due to an increase in com-
merce as a direct result of the cost of doing business becoming less expen-
sive. However, events do not always unfold as theory suggests.
The Federal Reserve began an aggressive campaign to lower interest
rates to kick start the U.S. economy in 2001. It cut short-term rates 13 times,
11 of those cuts amounting to 4.75 percentage points coming during 2001, a
difficult period for the U.S. economy. Then in November 2002 the Fed cut
rates another 50 basis points in what it called a “preventive” action against
possible economic weakness as the United States was preparing to attack
Iraq to combat global terrorism and oust Saddam Hussein and his weapons
of mass destruction. The invasion was a quick one—I think the UN Security
Council meeting debates took longer than the actual military operation.
However, U.S. economic growth still did not accelerate as expected, so
on May 6, 2003, the Fed slashed rates for the 13th time. That 25-point cut
dropped the Fed funds rate to 1 percent, and Federal Reserve Chairman Alan
Greenspan even mentioned combating potential deflation as a reason for
making this move!
The whole investment world did an about-face. Most people thought
the Fed was getting closer to actually raising interest rates rather than low-
ering them, and there was speculation that the Fed would take other uncon-
ventional means such as buying back 10-year and 30-year bonds to lower
rates for longer-term maturities. Mortgage rates fell to the lowest level in
nearly 50 years. The market’s focus shifted to watching the Producer Price
Index, the Consumer Price Index, and employment plus any other reports
that would hint at a stronger manufacturing sector as well as any that would
indicate a decrease in the jobless rate.
These were some unconventional responses to some unconventional
moves, but the key point is that it is important to grasp the significance of
the underlying economic fundamentals and the implications they might have
for any market you are trading.
Interest rates control the cost of money. Those who can foretell what
money will cost to lend or borrow have the upper hand in the investment
community. Rates dictate many other factors, especially because they are
one of the variables in calculations to determine fair-market values from
stock index futures to the broker loan rates for stock traders. It isn’t just

P-02_4218 2/24/04 2:13 PM Page 21
Reports, Reports 21
mortgage companies that have to guard against changes in interest rates,
but a broad range of businesses have to consider interest rate levels in their
plans.
REPORTS, REPORTS
One of the advantages of trading futures is that the government releases
dozens of reports every week, and the media provides additional material
that offers insights into what might lie ahead for market prices. Determining
the direction of the economy from reading economic reports is vital for un-
derstanding the potential for the direction of interest rates as well as gaug-
ing the health of the various sectors of the economy.
For example, government reports such as those on employment may
reveal what the potential for future household disposable income is and give
analysts and economists an idea of how much spending could occur based
on the number of Americans working. News articles give you the ability to
follow and understand the political scene, both on international and domes-
tic levels. If Congress passes a bill to donate more wheat than expected, then
this action may have a more bullish impact on the price of wheat futures. Or
if Congress passes laws to change the tax rate on capital gains, you might be
able to speculate on what the stock market or other financial markets
may do.
If the European Central Bank announces a lower than expected interest
rate adjustment, it is likely to affect the value of the euro and, inversely, the
U.S. dollar. If values of these currencies shift abruptly and to a severe degree,
then, of course, products that are imported and exported would be priced
differently and, ultimately, could cause a ripple effect on costs and prices of
goods and services in the United States and overseas.
One reason you want to be educated and up-to-date on developments
in the economy is because they usually dictate how different financial prod-
ucts and futures prices will perform. The stock market likes to see healthy
economic growth because that usually equates to better or substantially
larger corporate profits. The bond market prefers a slower, more sustainable
growth rate that will not lead to inflationary pressures. By watching and
tracking economic data and getting insights from analysts and economists,
investors will be better able to keep in tune with the markets and their
investments.
In fact, you should be aware of what could happen before most reports
are released. That is why news services often give the schedule for current
events and special reports. Publications such as Barron’s, Investors Busi-
ness Daily, or the Wall Street Journal will often give you a consensus of
analysts’ opinions on what to expect and show you what you need to know

P-02_4218 2/24/04 2:13 PM Page 22
22 FUNDAMENTALS: The Market Driver
to stay in tune with the markets. Most futures brokerage firms also provide
special calendars that include the dates and times that most major economic
and agricultural reports are released.
Trading is not an easy venture, and one helpful bit of advice I would
emphasize is that you should always be aware of the day’s current events
and scheduled reports if you are in the markets. Not knowing what day or
time a report is released could be hazardous to your financial health. Know-
ing about a major report before it is released is often useful because you
have a chance to eliminate a surprise from an adverse market move. Even
if you are not a fundamental trader, you should, at the very least, be aware
of the main fundamental factors that might affect the markets you are trad-
ing and the impact reports and events may have on the market.
WHAT TO WATCH, WHAT IT MEANS
Here are some of the economic terms, events, and reports that U.S. traders
should know and watch, including a brief explanation of why they are im-
portant to investors. If you did not pay attention in your economics classes,
this section will bring you up to speed.
Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) Meetings and Policy
Announcements The FOMC consists of seven governors of the Federal
Reserve Board and five Federal Reserve Bank presidents. The FOMC meets
eight times a year—roughly every six weeks—to determine the near-term
direction of monetary policy. Whether there is a change in rates or not, the
FOMC announces its decision immediately after FOMC meetings.
A few accompanying statements the Fed may make after announcing
any adjustments in interest rates may have as much influence on markets
as a change or no change in rates themselves. For example, the FOMC may
take a “neutral” stance on the outlook for the economy. Or it may point to
prospects for growth or suggest the potential for economic weakness or in-
flationary pressures. The FOMC actions or comments can have a powerful
impact on markets.
Treasury Bonds, Bills, and Notes The U.S. government issues sev-
eral different kinds of bonds through the Bureau of the Public Debt, an
agency of the U.S. Department of the Treasury. Treasury debt securities are
classified according to their maturities:
• Treasury bills have maturities of 1 year or less.
• Treasury notes have maturities of 2 to 10 years.
• Treasury bonds have maturities of more than 10 years.

P-02_4218 2/24/04 2:13 PM Page 23
What to Watch, What It Means 23
Treasury bonds, bills, and notes are all issued in face values of $1,000, though
there are different purchase minimums for each type of security.
Interest Rates, Financial Markets and Bonds U.S. Treasury
bonds, by virtually any definition, are simply a loan. The U.S. government
borrows the funds it needs to operate, including financing the federal
deficit. Ultimately, taxpayers will have to pay back the loan.
When a bond is issued, the price you pay is known as its face value.
Once you buy it, the government promises to pay you back on a specific day
known as the maturity date. It issues that instrument at a predetermined
rate of interest, called the coupon. For instance, if you buy a bond with a
$1,000 face value, a 6 percent coupon, and a 10-year maturity, you would
collect interest payments totaling $60 in each of those 10 years. When the
decade is up, you get back your $1,000.
If you buy a U.S. Treasury bond and hold it until maturity, you will know
exactly how much you’re going to get back. That’s why bonds are also known
asfixed-incomeinvestments—they guarantee you a continuous set income
backed by the U.S. government. What confuses most investors in bonds is
the concept of yield and price. Simply stated, when yield goes up, price goes
down, and vice versa.
Government Reports
Beige Book A combination of economic conditions from each of the 12
Federal Reserve regional districts, the Beige Bookis aptly named because
of the color of its cover (really). This report is usually released two weeks
before the monetary policy meetings of the FOMC. The information on eco-
nomic conditions is then used by the FOMC to set interest rate policy. If the
Beige Bookportrays an overheating economy or inflationary pressures, the
Fed may be more inclined to raise interest rates to moderate the economic
pace. Conversely, if the Beige Bookportrays economic difficulties or reces-
sion conditions, the Fed may see a need to lower interest rates to stimulate
activity.
Gross Domestic Product (GDP) GDP is the broadest measure of ag-
gregate economic activity and accounts for almost every sector of the econ-
omy. Analysts use this figure to track the economy’s overall performance
because it usually indicates how strong or weak the economy is and helps
to predict the potential profit margin for companies. It also helps analysts
determine whether economic growth is accelerating or slowing down. The
stock market likes to see healthy economic growth because that translates
to higher corporate profits and higher share values.

P-02_4218 2/24/04 2:13 PM Page 24
24 FUNDAMENTALS: The Market Driver
International Trade and Current Account Figures These num-
bers measure the difference between imports and exports of both goods
and services. Changes in the level of imports and exports are an important
tool for gauging economic trends, both domestically and overseas. These
reports can have a profound effect on the value of the dollar. That value, in
turn, can help or hurt multinational corporations whose profits overseas
can diminish when they convert their funds back to the United States, es-
pecially if the U.S. dollar is overvalued. Another valuable aspect of such re-
ports is that imports can help to indicate U.S. demand for foreign goods, and
exports may show demand for U.S. goods in overseas countries.
Index of Leading Economic Indicators (LEI) This report is a com-
posite index of 10 economic indicators that typically lead overall economic
activity. The LEI index helps to predict the health of the economy and may
be an early clue about the prospects for recession or economic expansion.
Consumer Price Index (CPI) The CPI measures the average price level
of goods and services purchased by consumers and is the most widely fol-
lowed indicator of inflation in the United States. Monthly changes represent
the inflation rate that is quoted widely and influences a number of markets.
Inflation is a general increase in the price of goods and services. The re-
lationship between inflation and interest rates is the key to understanding
how data such as the CPI influence the markets. Higher energy prices, man-
ufacturing cost increases, medical costs, imbalances in global supply and
demand of raw materials, and prices of food products all weigh on this re-
port. For example, if gas prices at the pump escalate and the cost to fill up
your car rises from, say, $30 a week to $50 or even $60 a week, you will have
less spending money for other items. It may not affect you immediately, but
a longer duration of higher prices will hit your pocketbook.
Even weather can be a factor for short-term changes in food prices. What
would be the cost of tomatoes at the grocery store after a damaging freeze
in California or in Georgia? Maybe $3 or $4 per pound? Any grocery shopper
can probably recall when such price spikes occurred. The restaurants that
serve salads lose revenue as well as the farmer whose crop is destroyed.
These factors all play a part in the CPI number. The core rate is the in-
flation number that excludes the volatile food and energy components. Econ-
omists track these numbers; you should, too.
Producer Price Index (PPI) Formerly known as the Wholesale Price
Index, the PPI is a measure of the average prices for a fixed basket of cap-
ital and consumer goods paid by producers. The PPI measures price changes
in the manufacturing sector. The inflation rate may depend on a general in-
crease in the prices of goods and services.

P-02_4218 2/24/04 2:13 PM Page 25
What to Watch, What It Means 25
Institute of Supply Management (ISM) Index Formerly known as
the National Association of Purchasing Managers (NAPM) survey, the ISM
report provides a composite diffusion index of national manufacturing con-
ditions. Readings above 50 percent indicate an expanding factory sector,
readings below 50 percent, a contracting sector. The ISM Index helps econ-
omists and analysts get a detailed look at the manufacturing sector of the
economy, a major source of economic strength that can have a bearing on
the nation’s employment situation, a key to economic health.
Durable Goods Orders This report (Manufacturers’ Shipments, In-
ventories, and Orders) reflects new orders placed with domestic manufac-
turers for immediate and future delivery of factory-made products. Orders
for durable goods show how busy factories will be in the months to come as
manufacturers work to fill those orders. The data not only provide insight
into demand for things like washers, dryers, and cars but also take the tem-
perature of the strength of the economy going forward.
Industrial Production and Capacity Utilization These rates mea-
sure the physical output of the nation’s factories, mines, and utilities and re-
flect the usage level of available resources. Because the manufacturing
sector accounts for an estimated one-quarter of the economy, these reports
can sometimes have a big impact on stock and financial market movement.
The capacity utilization rate provides an estimate of how much factory ca-
pacity is in use. If the utilization rate gets too high (above 85 percent), it can
lead to inflationary pressures.
Factory Orders The dollar level of new orders for manufacturing
durable and nondurable goods shows the potential for factories to increase
or decrease activity based on the amount of orders they receive. This report
provides insight into the demand for not only hard goods such as refrigera-
tors and cars, but also nondurable items such as cigarettes and apparel.
Business Inventories Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan is said to be
among those who watch the report of business inventories, so you should
become familiar with it as well. This report shows the dollar amount of in-
ventories held by manufacturers, wholesalers, and retailers. The level of in-
ventories in relation to sales is an important indicator for the future direction
of factory production.
Consumer Confidence If there is one area that has been watched
most carefully in recent years, it is consumer sentiment. Several surveys or
polls gauge consumer attitudes. Among the best known are those conducted
by The Conference Board and the University of Michigan. These surveys

P-02_4218 2/24/04 2:13 PM Page 26
26 FUNDAMENTALS: The Market Driver
reveal what consumers think about present conditions as well as what their
expectations are for future economic conditions.
The level of consumer confidence is generally assumed to be directly re-
lated to the strength or weakness for consumer spending, which accounts for
two-thirds of the U.S. economy. Generally speaking, the more confident con-
sumers are about their own personal finances, the more likely they are to
spend. If they have money in the bank and feel confident that their job is se-
cure, buying an extra gadget or splurging on a night out usually won’t be any
trouble. In contrast, if times are tough, then the purse strings get pulled in.
These indications from one month to the next give analysts an idea of the
potential for shifts in future spending habits that can help or hurt develop-
ments in the economy from durable goods sales to home or car purchases.
Employment Situation The key to consumer confidence often depends
on the status of jobs. The monthly unemployment rate measures the num-
ber of unemployed as a percentage of the nation’s workforce. Non-farm-
payroll employment tallies the number of paid employees working part-time
and or full-time in the nation’s business and government sectors.
Several important components are included in this report, one being the
average hourly workweek that reflects the number of hours worked in the
nonfarm sector. Another component is average hourly earnings, which
shows the hourly rate employees are receiving.
There are two portions of this report, one a weekly report released
every Thursday morning and the other the more influential monthly figures
that are usually released on the first Friday of every month.
Employment Cost Index (ECI) The ECI provides a measure of total
employee compensation costs, including wages and salaries as well as ben-
efits. It is the broadest measure of labor costs and helps analysts determine
trends in the cost that employers have from paying employees. This mea-
sure can give economists a clue as to whether inflation is perking up from
a cost of business standpoint. If a company needs to pay more to hire qual-
ified workers, then the cost of doing business increases and profit margins
are reduced. Companies usually have to raise their prices to consumers as
their costs increase. That is when the inflation theme starts to play out.
Productivity and Costs Productivity measures the growth of labor
efficiency in producing the economy’s goods and services. Unit labor costs
reflect the labor costs of producing each unit of output. Both are followed
as indicators of future inflationary trends. Productivity growth is critical be-
cause it allows for higher wages and faster economic growth without infla-
tionary consequences.

P-02_4218 2/24/04 2:13 PM Page 27
What to Watch, What It Means 27
Personal Income and Spending Personal incomeis the estimated
dollar amount of income received by Americans. Personal spendingis the
estimated dollar amount that consumers use for purchases of durable and
nondurable goods and services. This economic number is important be-
cause if consumers are spending more than they make, the spending will
stop eventually, thus causing a downturn in the economy. Another aspect
to consider is that consumers who save may be investing in the markets,
and that activity can increase the value of stock prices. In addition, it can also
add liquidity to the banking system if the money goes to savings or money
market accounts.
Retail Sales Retail sales numbers measure the total sales at stores that
sell durable and nondurable goods. These figures can reveal the spending
habits of consumers, and the trend of those spending sprees, more often
than not, can influence analysts’ expectations for future developments in the
economy.
Housing Starts This report measures the number of residential units
that are about to be constructed, a backbone of the American economy.
When you purchase a new home, you are giving a boost to not only the raw
material suppliers, builders, and their industries, but also to the producers
of durable goods items such as refrigerators, washers, dryers, furniture, lawn
care products, and many other items related to making a home. This is
known as a ripple effect throughout the economy. Think of all the jobs pro-
duced from construction to factory and transportation and even communi-
cation and technology that go into the building, financing, and furnishing a
new home.
The economic impact is substantial, especially when there are a hun-
dred thousand or more homes built in a month around the country. At the
very least, the data from housing starts can help project the price direction
for the sector of stocks involving home builders, mortgage bankers, and ap-
pliance companies. Lumber and copper futures prices used to be dramati-
cally affected by the housing starts figure. However, since the development
of prefab and new construction materials, especially fiber optics and plastics
(PVC, polyvinyl chloride, used for plumbing rather than copper), these prod-
ucts are now less sensitive to building industry trends.
New Home Sales Like housing starts, the level of new home sales
(committed sales) indicates housing market trends. This information pro-
vides another gauge for not only the demand for housing but also economic
momentum. People have to be feeling pretty comfortable and confident in
their own financial position to buy a home. Furthermore, as previously

P-02_4218 2/24/04 2:13 PM Page 28
28 FUNDAMENTALS: The Market Driver
mentioned, this narrow piece of data has a powerful multiplier effect
throughout the economy and, therefore, across markets where you may have
your investments.
Existing Home Sales Existing home sales (the number of previously
constructed homes with a closed sale during the month, also known as home
resales) are a larger share of the market than new home sales and provide
another indication of housing market trends. This statistic also provides
clues to the demand for housing and for economic momentum based on the
ripple effect.
Mortgage Bankers Association Purchase Applications Index This
weekly index of purchase applications at mortgage lenders is a good leading
indicator for single family home sales and housing construction and is an-
other gauge of housing demand and the resulting economic momentum.
Construction Spending This report goes beyond housing to show an-
alysts the amount of new construction activity on residential and nonresi-
dential building jobs. Commodities such as lumber are sensitive to housing
industry trends. In addition, business owners usually will put money into the
construction of a new facility or factory if they feel confident that business
is good enough to validate an expansion.
Consumer Credit One of the American consumers’ pastimes is to say
“Charge it” to purchase goods and services on their credit cards. Overall
changes in consumer credit can indicate the condition of individual con-
sumer finances. On the one hand, economic activity is stimulated when con-
sumers borrow within their means to buy cars and other major purchases. On
the other hand, if consumers pile up too much debt relative to their income
levels, they may have to stop spending on new goods and services just to pay
off old debts. That stoppage could put a big dent in future economic growth.
The demand for credit can also have a direct effect on interest rates. If
the demand to borrow money exceeds the supply of willing lenders, inter-
est rates rise. If credit demand falls and many willing lenders are fighting
for customers, they may offer lower interest rates to attract business.
Other Reports and Information
The government isn’t the only source of information vital to the markets, of
course. Private research reports, company reports, and even anecdotal ev-
idence gleaned from the news or from your neighborhood may provide
clues about the future of the economy and market prices.

P-02_4218 2/24/04 2:13 PM Page 29
What to Watch, What It Means 29
For example, you may be able to take the temperature of the economy
by watching travel reports. Are people going on vacations? Are they taking
two weeks or just three days? Staying close to home or going to exotic
places? Listening to your friends talking about their vacations and watching
airline traffic statistics may give you clues about travel that may be a good
guide for what’s happening to the economy that, in turn, may have a bearing
on what you are trading. In good times people tend to spend bigger money
on a vacation, where the number one activity is shopping, according to
Travelmagazine. Lots of consumer spending says a lot about the vibrancy
of the economy and supports higher stock market prices. If you trade energy,
more travel means airline fuel consumption goes up, and that may trigger
an increase in energy prices.
Statistics and reports from a number of private sources can back up or
refute your observations. Reports from weather services may keep you
ahead of the crowd on crop developments or prospects for heating oil. The
National Oilseed Processors Association releases reports about the soybean
“crush” that can help you analyze the outlook for not only soybeans but the
feed component for livestock markets as well. The American Petroleum In-
stitute releases weekly statistics on energy production and stocks. There
are many other similar sources of information, not to mention the dozens of
specialty newsletters providing information, insights, and advice on every
market.
Then, of course, there are the earnings reports and other information
released by thousands of public companies that drive the prices of individ-
ual stocks. Because there are many more equity traders in the investment
world than there are futures traders, you may be more familiar with these
reports. If the equity markets generate normal or even subnormal returns
based on a historical standard as some forecast for the next few years, then
the appetite for making money may attract individual investors to move
into futures products because of the leverage available in futures and op-
tions. And many futures traders will have to become more familiar with what
affects the prices of stocks as new demands and needs for products that
combine features of stocks and futures are introduced.
Futures and options activity will continue to expand and change as
both types of traders come to markets such as the popular e-mini S&P 500
index futures, which went from a daily volume of around 300,000 contracts
in February 2002 to as many as 1,000,000 contracts a day within a matter of
months. Those numbers offer proof that stock investors are flooding into the
futures markets. The debut of single stock futures in November 2002 gave
individual investors the unique opportunity to trade individual stocks with
the features and benefits of the futures markets and will send futures volume
in stocks-related markets even higher.

P-02_4218 2/24/04 2:13 PM Page 30
30 FUNDAMENTALS: The Market Driver
More participation from a wider variety of players may create more
volatility, making it more important than ever to know what to look for in
reports and how they may affect price behavior. When looking at company
numbers, it is vital to decipher what the actual financial strength of the
company is and to listen to what guidance is being given for that company’s
future. If a company president or CEO states that earnings were good based
on spending cuts rather than revenue growth and, in addition, indicates that
future sales may be slow, then that information would not bode well for that
stock’s price. Further, it might suggest that all companies in that sector might
be susceptible to a slow period or economic contraction.
Therefore, it is relevant to discuss earnings and other aspects of ana-
lyzing stock prices such as supply and demand and their perceived valuations
in addition to general economic numbers. The common and most popular
gauge of stock value is the price/earnings ratio (P/E). The calculation is sim-
ple: Just divide the stock price by the earnings. A stock priced at $60 and
earning $6 per share has a P/E ratio of 10. There are several other means of
analyzing a stock’s value: changes in sales figures, announced increases in
dividend payouts, amount of debt, new contracts that will generate more
revenue, takeover situations, stock buy-back plans, and so on.
The leader or largest capitalized company in a sector or industry group
may set the tone for that sector and help drive prices in either direction. So
it is important for stock index futures traders to follow the developments of
key stocks or sectors. Listening to the earnings reports or conference calls
may give you facts rather than brokers’ opinions on what was said and pro-
vides another form of fundamental analysis.
STAYING WITH THE INFORMATION FLOW
I have just described only a few of the more popular economic reports and
indicators released every day. As you can see, there is definitely enough in-
formation released to create fuel for the fire that causes volatility in the
markets, emphasizing the importance of staying on top of the daily calendar
of events, especially when you have positions that may be affected by these
reports. Awareness of what is going on around you can help you become a
successful trader.
Market participants change, money flow changes, the world political
scene changes, the market’s focus changes. The reports mentioned and
their significance will probably evolve over time just as they have in the past.
For example, the old NAPM survey is now the ISM Index. And you may re-
member when money supply M-1 and M-2 figures were a big deal (1984) that
everyone in the market had to follow.

P-02_4218 2/24/04 2:13 PM Page 31
Staying with the Information Flow 31
The times do change, and entrepreneurs and swift students of the mar-
kets will rise to the occasion to understand what information will help give
them an edge in an effort to beat the street. This business attracts the savvi-
est and smartest people in the world. Some are extremely well schooled, and
others are naturally gifted with good market sense and, well, sometimes with
just plain luck. You need to be aware that those people are the ones you are
up against as a market participant. If this is going to be your business, at least
knowing what the other team players follow may help you in your own
research.
Of course, even the biggest and smartest players lose sometimes. The
markets do not discriminate. They like to take money away from the large
commodity trading advisor who has an Ivy League degree and a Phi Beta
Kappa plaque on the office wall as well as from the small speculator. As mar-
kets change and fundamental shifts in business cycles occur, you need to ad-
just so you can grasp where the market’s focus is and find the reports and
information that will keep you in tune with the fundamentals of the market.

P-02_4218 2/24/04 2:13 PM Page 32

P-03_4218 2/24/04 2:19 PM Page 33
CHAPTER 3
Technical Analysis
The Art of Charts
The greatest ignorance is to reject something you
know nothing about.
—Anonymous
F
ormulating a trading plan should include the initial entry position,
the risk management loss objective, and the targeted profit objec-
tive—in other words, everything about the trade from start to finish.
The type of analysis you do should lead to a means to determine those three
components of a trade before you ever get into it. For many traders, ana-
lyzing price data on a chart—technical analysis—is the solution. The em-
phasis here is how to understand and apply technical tools without the
syndrome of analysis paralysis—that is, when too many studies are done,
dominating the trader’s time and leading to inaction. It’s true that no one
ever lost money by not trading, but if you are a trader or trying to trade, de-
cisions must be made.
How you proceed with your analysis may depend on your brain. An in-
teresting concept of how the brains of individuals function, whether they
are male or female, comes from research that shows that the left and the
right sides of the brain interpret and process data differently. Determining
which side of your brain is the dominant side may help you understand the
form of market analysis that you might like to use.
The left side of the brain is the logical, methodical reasoning, and ra-
tional thinking half. It is the side of the brain that facilitates dealings with
the factual sciences and mathematics. A person who is left-brain dominant
may relate to and place more emphasis and confidence in support and
33

P-03_4218 2/24/04 2:19 PM Page 34
34 TECHNICAL ANALYSIS: The Art of Charts
resistance levels derived from mathematical formulas such as pivot points
and Fibonacci and technical indicators as well as cold, hard supply/demand
reports or statistical data.
The right side of the brain, according to researchers and doctors, is the
artistic dominating side. If the right side of your brain dominates your
thinking as a technical chart analyst, then you have a strong tendency to re-
member and recall chart patterns. You may put more confidence in repeti-
tive chart pattern techniques and the ensuing theories of measurement
techniques and methodologies behind these formations. For this kind of
thinker, learning traditional chart patterns and Japanese candlestick forma-
tions may evolve to become a reasonable method to interpret and process
data to act on trading decisions.
Chart reading has fascinated traders for hundreds of years, even though
it has never been totally accepted by academics and other market purists.
Using charts to analyze markets and price movement is certainly not an exact
science but, rather, a working form of art that sometimes depends more on
what the eye sees than on a conclusive fact. I believe it is absolutely essen-
tial that you develop at least the basic skills in the art of charting price moves
if you want to become an astute trader, even if you are more comfortable
trading based on fundamentals and facts.
There are three main popular charting techniques: bar charts, point-and-
figure charts, and candlestick charts. Another technique of charting or
watching price patterns and the behavior of the market is market profiling.
The importance of any type of charting is to help understand where market
prices have been and, based on past historical reactions, to predict where
prices may go in the future.
Determining the trend or direction of prices is one of the main objectives
of chart analysis. Pattern recognition leading up to a chart setup is another
purpose of chart work. The more times you identify the characteristics of a
pattern and the frequency it repeats itself, the more likely you will get the
experience and confidence you need to follow the next similar pattern with
a trading decision. The outcome from doing your work on the charts should
be profits resulting from making the trade. If the pattern fails to produce
the desired results, then you should be able to determine when to cut and
run from the trade to avert a financial disaster.
This chapter covers the basics of bar charts, point-and-figure charting,
and market profiling. Chapter 4 focuses on a more visual method of charting,
candlesticks, and Chapter 5 provides a more extensive explanation of chart
patterns that apply to several types of charts. You’ll also find suggestions in
this chapter on where to access data and where to obtain further educa-
tional material and books so you can enhance your trading knowledge in
areas that appeal to you.

P-03_4218 2/24/04 2:19 PM Page 35
Bar Charts 35
BAR CHARTS
Bar charts are the standard means of chart analysis and probably the most
widely used charting form and technique.
The concept of a bar chart is simple. On a graph the horizontal axis rep-
resents time, and the vertical axis represents price levels. Within that graph,
a single bar or vertical line will represent the range or the high and low points
that prices reached during a given time period. A small hash line or horizon-
tal mark on the left side of the bar identifies the opening price; another hash
mark or horizontal line on the right side of the bar indicates the closing
price for that time period (Figure 3.1). The time represented by the vertical
bar could be 1 minute, 5 minutes, 60 minutes, a day, a week, a month, or even
a year.
The relationship between the current time frame’s range and the previ-
ous time frame’s open, high, low, and close is significant. Here are four clas-
sifications of bars that have more significance to analysts:
1. One of the more popular, well-known bars is a key reversal. The bearish
key reversal (Figure 3.2) makes a higher high than the previous time
frame and usually closes below the prior time frame’s close and the
general trend direction. This occurrence is frequently accompanied by
unusually strong volume and indicates the trend is reversing. An S&P
500 index chart shows a good example (Figure 3.3). The exact opposite
occurs for a bullish key reversal in a downtrending market—lower low
than the previous time frame and then a close above the prior time
frame’s close.
High
Open
Close
Low
FIGURE 3.1 The basic bar. FIGURE 3.2 Key reversal.

P-03_4218 2/24/04 2:19 PM Page 36
36 TECHNICAL ANALYSIS: The Art of Charts
Key reversal
down
Short-term trend
is higher
FIGURE 3.3 Shifting into reverse. (Source:Gecko Software, Inc. Reprinted with
permission.)
2. Theoutside bar(Figure 3.4) occurs when the current range takes out
the previous time frame’s high and low, but the close is consistent with
the current trend. It usually signals the continuation of the market’s
direction.
FIGURE 3.4 Outside bar.

P-03_4218 2/24/04 2:19 PM Page 37
Bar Charts 37
3. The settlement price reversal bar (Figure 3.5) occurs when the bar
moves in the same direction as the previous time frame’s bar—a higher
high and higher low for an uptrending market—but closes lower than
the previous time frame’s settlement price.
4. The inside bar is exactly what it sounds like (Figure 3.6). The current
bar’s high and low are within the previous time frame’s high and low—
that is, the whole current range is within the previous bar’s range. The
close is not considered important by most chartists. What is important is
how the market behaves in the next time frame. A breakout either way of
the inside bar range gives a buy or sell signal, based on the theory that
there is a continued price move in the direction of the breakout.
Figure 3.7 displays all four of the preceding bar examples and shows the en-
suing price results.
Of course, one bar usually does not make a chart pattern. However,
training your eyes to quickly spot a bar that may lead to identifying a pat-
tern or formation is what learning chart analysis is all about. Once you see
a formation and study a repetitive result time after time, your confidence
level will increase and, thus, you may be able to pull the trigger quicker to
execute a trade faster.
The analysis of the chart is the same whether each bar represents a
minute, 5 minutes, 12 minutes, 30 minutes, an hour, day, week, or month.
The time frame you choose depends on how close you want to be to the
market and how many trading opportunities you would like to see.
FIGURE 3.5 Settlement FIGURE 3.6 Inside bar.
price reversal.

P-03_4218 2/24/04 2:19 PM Page 38
38 TECHNICAL ANALYSIS: The Art of Charts
March 2003 euro futures
Key reversal
down day
Settlement
reversal day
Inside day
Outside day
FIGURE 3.7 Multiple one-bar signals.
POINT-AND-FIGURE CHARTS
The point-and-figure method of charting has a long history. Author and well-
known technician John Murphy estimates the development of point-and-
figure charts goes back to sometime in the 1880s or 1890s, but they have not
been popular with futures traders in recent years.
Point-and-figure charts have one unique difference from other charts:
Time is not a concern; only price action is. The vertical axis represents price,
the same as a bar chart. Instead of bars for a time period on the horizontal
axis, however, the columns on a point-and-figure chart alternate between Xs
for upward price movement and Os for downward price movement, chang-
ing from one character to the other when a specified amount of price
movement occurs.
Each box on a point-and-figure chart represents a price unit. If prices are
moving up, an X is placed in a box as each new higher price unit is achieved.
When prices turn lower by a set number of boxes (price units), a new column
of Os begins to the right of the column of Xs, and Os continue to be added
to the bottom of that column as each new lower box (price unit) is reached.
A price reversal equal to one box size may result in the formation of a
new column. A method of smoothing out fluctuations is to only record price
reversals that exceed a set number of boxes. The number of boxes is called

P-03_4218 2/24/04 2:19 PM Page 39
Point-and-Figure Charts 39
thereversal amount,and a new column will not be started until price has
retraced by that amount. Standard plots would usually be stated as some-
thing like 10 by 3, that is, 10 points per box with a three-box (30 points) re-
versal amount. Thus, a new column of Xs or Os would not begin unless the
market reversed by 30 points.
When you update a point-and-figure chart, you’re only concerned with
high and low prices. The closing price is unimportant. You remain in the cur-
rent column as long as the price action continues in the same direction. If
you are making a column of Xs and the high for the period moves up at least
one more box, then add an X to the column. Of course, if the high is more
than one box higher, then fill in all of the boxes to match that high price. As
long as the market continues to make higher highs, continue filling Xs in the
current column and ignore the lows during the period you are plotting.
If the market does not make a higher high and the low for the session
is not three boxes lower than the highest X (assuming that is your reversal
amount), then there is no update for the chart for that period. In a quiet
market, you may not make a mark on a point-and-figure chart for an ex-
tended period of time, whereas you add a bar to a bar chart for every time
period, even when there is minimal price movement.
For more volatile markets such as the stock indexes or bonds, I would
suggest 8 by 3 as parameters, as Figure 3.8, the September 2003 bond futures
September 2003
T-bond futures
(8/32 box size X 3)
FIGURE 3.8 Point-and-figure chart. (Source:eSignal. Reprinted with permission.)

P-03_4218 2/24/04 2:19 PM Page 40
40 TECHNICAL ANALYSIS: The Art of Charts
chart, illustrates. Increasing the reversal number will effectively make the
point-and-figure chart less sensitive; decreasing the reversal number will
make it more sensitive to recording price moves.
The important fact to remember is that the price action on a point-and-
figure chart may occur over the course of a day, a week, a month, or a year.
The time period is irrelevant for the point-and-figure chartist. I have seen
some floor traders use the point-and-figure method for intraday charts, pen-
ciling Xs and Os on the backs of trading cards and on graph paper. For them,
these charts make it easy to see trend lines and breakout points because the
focus is on specific price points.
For a beginning chartist, I would strongly consider starting with bar
charts. Point-and-figure charting needs tweaking or optimizing to determine
the right box size and reversal amounts for each market and for the time
frame and sensitivity that you might want to fit your own trading style. For
those who enjoy a challenge of learning a different charting method, Point &
Figure Chartingby Thomas J. Dorsey discusses this type of charting in more
detail.
MARKET PROFILING
Market profiling is a relatively new (1984) and highly sophisticated method
of plotting market action and is a truly unique way of organizing and col-
lecting market-generated time, price, and volume information. This method
converts the data into recognizable structures based on the bell curve and
helps traders decipher and identify where and how buyers and sellers enter
the market.
Market profiling effectively organizes price and time information so that
traders can see which price levels the market accepts or which price areas
the market rejects. Using sophisticated software, market profiling outlines
the market’s assessment of true value, volume analysis by price level and
market participant type, and a long-term overview of the balance and imbal-
ance of buying and selling pressure and its application to long-term and short-
term trading strategies.
The Chicago Board of Trade holds copyrights to the data in the Liquid-
ity Data Bank™ (LDB), which is the basis of its marketprofileSMsoftware.
Using the marketprofile program, time brackets are typically assigned to
each 15-minute period of trading and then cataloged. (The time bracket pe-
riod was changed from the original 30 minutes to 15 minutes on January 2,
1990.) For example, the “y” bracket may start at 7 a.m. and go to 7:14:59
a.m. A small “y” is placed at each price increment where a trade occurs dur-
ing the first 15 minutes of trading and identifies the opening range. The

P-03_4218 2/24/04 2:19 PM Page 41
Market Profiling 41
FIGURE 3.9 A mini-sized Dow contract chart using marketprofileSMwith 30-
minute time brackets. (Source:eSignal. Reprinted with permission.)
next time bracket is “z,” from 7:15 a.m. to 7:29:59 a.m., followed by “A” for
7:30 a.m. to 7:44:59 a.m., “B” for 7:45 a.m. to 7:59:59 a.m., and so on. Figure 3.9
shows two marketprofile days for mini-sized Dow futures, but using the 30-
minute time brackets. As trading action unfolds, you can see where the con-
centration of prices is taking place and what happens when the market
approaches a higher or lower price plateau.
Retail traders have paid little attention to this technique, but some ex-
change members and institutional desk traders use this method to develop
a better understanding of market behavior and to find value and trading op-
portunities. It combines the keys of market analysis—volume and price in
a given period—and analyzes acceptance or rejection of a given price level
as validated by volume.

P-03_4218 2/24/04 2:19 PM Page 42
42 TECHNICAL ANALYSIS: The Art of Charts
While I am on the subject, one reason day traders like intraday charting
periods such as 5, 10, or 15 minutes is because they divide the regular trading
session equally into the same time periods that make up the marketprofile
time brackets on the floor. Even 60-minute charts are just the sum of four
complete 15-minute time brackets. You can use 12, 20, 29, or some other
odd number of minutes, but if the professional traders are not doing that,
then it probably is not a wise decision for you to create some new time
division.
The Chicago Board of Trade offers educational materials on market-
profile. The Chicago Mercantile Exchange (CME) also has classes on mar-
ket profiling as well as on candlesticks and other technical analysis areas.
Dan Gramza is one of the instructors. If you ever have the opportunity to
take a course on trading taught by Gramza, I strongly recommend that you
take it. With all the get-rich-quick, hyped-up fluff being marketed by so-called
experts these days, it is hard to find a class that can impress a 20-year veteran
like myself—you know the expression, “It’s hard to teach old dogs new
tricks.” However, Gramza is more than qualified in market knowledge, and
his demeanor and method of teaching are superb.
For a current schedule of classes and the names of instructors, go to
www.cme.com and click on “education.” In addition to the CME educa-
tion department, which uses a classroom equipped with unbelievable
state-of-the-art equipment and individual computer workstations for each
student, some data vendors offer marketprofile as a premium service.
CQG (www.cqg.com) and eSignal (www.esignal.com) are among those
companies.

P-04_4218 2/24/04 2:23 PM Page 43
CHAPTER 4
Candle Charts
Lighting the Path
War is such that the supreme consideration is
speed.
—Sun-tzu,The Art of Warfare
M
any believe that trading is financial warfare. It is either kill or be
killed; the winner is the one who will reap the spoils of war—
namely, financial gain. The futures arena, after all, comprises a
zero-sum game.
It has been stated that, when there is blood in the water, there may be
sharks. In the business of trading, there are many great white sharks lurk-
ing in the water. The competition is fierce because this industry attracts the
sharpest minds, highly educated individuals, and men and women of vary-
ing degrees of moral scruples.
In this business speed sometimes is the supreme consideration when it
comes to order execution, not only for entering positions but even for exit-
ing the market. Candle charting, in my opinion, can help speed the ana-
lytical process and uncover the psychological or emotional makeup of the
market and can give you an edge in seeing the next directional move the
market may make.
Japanese candle charts have been receiving increasing notoriety since
Steve Nison wrote his first book on the subject in 1991, bringing the concept
to the attention of many traders in the West for the first time. I have had the
pleasure of working with Steve in a Webinar for the Chicago Board of Trade
(CBOT) when we did a presentation combining pivot points (discussed in
Chapter 6) and candle charting techniques to help identify market reversals
in the CBOT mini-sized Dow futures contract.
43

P-04_4218 2/24/04 2:23 PM Page 44
44 CANDLE CHARTS: Lighting the Path
I also had Steve on my radio show to help shed light on how he first
learned about this advanced and unique method of charting. He explained
that a broker in his office at Merrill Lynch had been receiving a chart
book from Japan, and he became extremely curious about the formations
that the candles made. He took it from there, going to Japan to learn more
about charting and devoting many hours to studying this form of techni-
cal analysis.
Candle charting originated in Japan centuries ago. It is a method of look-
ing at data differently than what had been developed in western cultures. The
advantage of using candle charts in place of bar charts is that you can use the
same techniques and analysis as you do on bar charts, and you can enhance
that analysis with the diverse and unique signals that candles generate with
their more sophisticated, graphic style that allows a quick visual analysis of
price action. More and more analysts have turned to candles, so you should
at least become aware of what this three-dimensional approach to charting is
all about.
ANY MARKET, ANY TIME FRAME
Like a bar chart, each time period produces a price bar called a candle. Each
candle has a different characteristic that represents the difference or dis-
tance between the high, low, open, and close. Candle charting techniques can
be used on data from whatever time period you choose—minutes, hours,
days, weeks, or months. It lends itself to pattern recognition, trend lines, sup-
port and resistance, channel lines, and all the other typical technical analysis
features.
Candle analysis usually is not limited to a single candle but is based on
several bars forming a pattern and on the location of that candle or pattern
within overall market action. First, however, you have to learn how to read
one candle.
The key feature of the candle is the body, the difference between the
open and close prices. Using the conventional way of displaying candles, a
dark body indicates that the closing price was below the opening price (Fig-
ure 4.1), and a white or hollow body indicates that the closing price was
higher than the opening price (Figure 4.2). (Note: Some software vendors use
the color red instead of black to designate candles that have a close lower
than the open and the color green instead of white or hollow candles that
have a close higher than the open. Many software programs allow you to ad-
just these colors and styles yourself. Check with your software provider.)
A single candle does not tell you if the close is higher or lower than the
previous time period, indicating only whether the close is higher or lower
than the open for each candle. The emphasis on the body is based on the be-
lief that the most important price action for the period takes place between

P-04_4218 2/24/04 2:23 PM Page 45
Candle Patterns 45
High High
Upper Upper
Open shadow Close shadow
Black White
real body real body
Close Open
Lower Lower
Low shadow Low shadow
FIGURE 4.1 Close below FIGURE 4.2 Close above
open. open.
the open and close while the price action outside the body, the upper and
lowershadows,is less important.
CANDLE PATTERNS
Individual candles and formations have some very interesting and descrip-
tive names. The hammer(Figure 4.3) indicates a reversal or a bottom is near
after a downtrend. When a similar candle formation appears after an up-
trend, the name transforms into hanging manand indicates a top is near.
Three main characteristics are needed to hammer in a bottom:
1. The real body is at the upper end of the trading range. The color (white
or black) is not important.
2. The lower part, or the shadow, should be at least twice the length of the
real body.
3. The body should have little or no upper shadow and look like a shaved-
head candle.
FIGURE 4.3 Hammer.

P-04_4218 2/24/04 2:23 PM Page 46
46 CANDLE CHARTS: Lighting the Path
Thestar(Figure 4.4) appears at the top of an uptrend and can signal a
reversal. Again, the color does not matter, but the body should be at the
lower end of the trading range with a long upper shadow. The significance
here is that it shows the market opened near the low of the day, then had an
explosive rally that failed, and closed back down near the low of the day.
Usually there is little or no lower shadow, looking like a shaved bottom.
When this pattern is at the bottom of a downtrend, it is called an in-
verted hammer. The color (white or black) is not important. This is not a
tremendously reliable candle as a bottom indicator on its own. Usually a
white candle opening above the inverted hammer’s body in the next trading
session can verify the potential buy signal.
Spinning tops (Figure 4.5) have small real bodies usually with small
upper and lower shadows. These formations indicate a tug-of-war occur-
ring between buyers and sellers
The doji (Figure 4.6) has nearly the same opening and closing price.
This candle typically indicates a change of direction. Doji are more power-
ful as an indicator of a market top, especially after a long white or hollow
candle, meaning the market closed above the open during the previous pe-
riod. Doji signify indecision and uncertainty. They can also indicate bottoms,
but more signals are needed to confirm a bottom than just using a doji. There
are several types of doji: the gravestone(Figure 4.7), dragonfly(Figure4.8),
andrickshaw(Figure 4.9).
Anevening star(Figure 4.10) is a three-candle formation that signals a
major top. The first candle normally has a tall white or hollow real body. The
second candle has a small real body (white or black) that gaps higher and
can be a star candle. A doji can also be in the middle; that is considered even
more bearish. The third candle has a black body, and the important point
here is that it should close well into the first candle’s real body.
FIGURE 4.4 Star. FIGURE 4.5 Spinning tops.

P-04_4218 2/24/04 2:23 PM Page 47
Candle Patterns 47
FIGURE 4.6 Doji. FIGURE 4.7 Gravestone.
FIGURE 4.8 Dragonfly. FIGURE 4.9 Rickshaw.
Another example of this type of pattern is the abandon baby. It is ex-
tremely rare and is a very potent top or bottom signal. Figure 4.11 illustrates
the similarities to the evening doji star.
Similar to the evening star, the morning star (Figure 4.12) is a major
bottom reversal pattern that is a three-candle formation. The first candle has
a long black real body. The second candle has a small real body that gaps
FIGURE 4.10 Evening star.

P-04_4218 2/24/04 2:23 PM Page 48
48 CANDLE CHARTS: Lighting the Path
Doji top
abandon baby
(same as an
island top)
FIGURE 4.11 Abandon baby. (Source:Gecko Software, Inc. Reprinted with permission.)
lower than the first candle’s body. The third candle’s body sometimes gaps
higher than the second candle’s body, but this does not happen often. It is
important that the third candle be a white candle and close well above the
midpoint of the first candle’s real body.
Theshooting star(Figure 4.13) is a two-candle pattern. The second can-
dle gaps higher than the prior candle’s real body, which is usually a white or
hollow candle in an uptrending market. However, the color of the star, or
second, candle is not important. This pattern signals that the longs are failing
to maintain the upward momentum.
The bearish engulfing pattern (Figure 4.14) has a distinct look. The
black candle’s real body (close lower than the open) completely covers the
real body of the previous white or hollow candle (close higher than open).
It is important to note that the open is higher than the first candle’s real body,
and the close is below the lowest portion of the first candle’s body. The bear-
ish engulfing pattern occurs during an uptrend and signifies that the mo-
mentum may be shifting from the bulls to the bears.
Thebullish engulfing pattern(Figure 4.15) reverses everything you just
read about the bearish engulfing pattern. The real body of a white candle

P-04_4218 2/24/04 2:23 PM Page 49
Candle Patterns 49
FIGURE 4.12 Morning star. FIGURE 4.13 Shooting star.
FIGURE 4.14 Bearish FIGURE 4.15 Bullish
engulfing pattern. engulfing pattern.
completely covers the previous black candle’s real body. It is also relevant to
note that the opening is lower than the first candle’s real body, and the close
is above the high end of the first candle’s body. The bullish engulfing pattern
appears during a downtrend, signifying that the momentum may be shifting
from the bears to the bulls.
The dark cloud cover (Figure 4.16) is another bearish reversal signal
that usually appears after an uptrend. The first white candle is followed by
a black candle. The important features are that the dark candle should open
higher than the white candle’s high and should close well below the mid-
point of the white candle’s real body.
Thepiercing pattern(Figure 4.17) can be considered the opposite of
the dark cloud cover. The piercing pattern is a bottom-reversing, two-candle
pattern. It requires the first candle to be a long dark candle, and the second
candle must gap open lower than the first candle’s body (lower than the
previous bar’s close). The other important characteristic is that it closes
well above the midpoint of the long, dark first candle.

P-04_4218 2/24/04 2:23 PM Page 50
50 CANDLE CHARTS: Lighting the Path
FIGURE 4.16 Dark cloud FIGURE 4.17 Piercing
cover. pattern.
Theharami(Figure 4.18) has a small real body that is entirely within the
prior candle’s body. This is known as a reversal pattern or a warning of a
trend change, especially at market tops. It is not important what the colors of
the bodies are, but I notice that the more reliable signals are generated when
the colors are opposite. If the second candle looks like a doji instead of a
spinning top, this would be considered a harami cross. Those are rare and are
more powerful sell signals at market tops.
With a bearish haramicross(Figure 4.19), a long white candle signifies
the market closed above the open with little or no shadows at both ends, fol-
lowed in the next time period by a doji in the middle of the real white body.
Especially after a long advance, this tells me that buyers are changing their
minds and the market is changing hands from bulls to bears or sellers are en-
tering the market. If this formation occurred on high volume or at an impor-
tant pivot point target near the high, a short position would be warranted or,
FIGURE 4.18 Harami.

P-04_4218 2/24/04 2:23 PM Page 51
Candle Patterns 51
FIGURE 4.19 Bearish FIGURE 4.20 Bullish harami
harami cross. cross.
at the least, further examination of a potential shorting opportunity should be
explored.
Abullish haramicross(Figure 4.20) occurs in a downtrending market,
and the exact opposite of a bearish harami would be true. The first candle is
usually a long dark candle signifying the market closed below the open
with little or no real shadows at both ends, followed in the next trading ses-
sion by a doji within the real dark body.
Thethree crows(Figure 4.21) pattern has three long or relatively longer
than normal candles that close on or near their lows. This pattern can sig-
nify a potential top when the market is at a high, especially after a long ex-
tended trend.
Thethree white or advancing soldiers(Figure 4.22) generally demon-
strates a sign of continuing strength, especially in the beginning stages of an
uptrend as prices start to advance from a bottom.
FIGURE 4.21 Three crows. FIGURE 4.22 Three white
soldiers.

P-04_4218 2/24/04 2:23 PM Page 52
52 CANDLE CHARTS: Lighting the Path
FIGURE 4.23 Bearish falling FIGURE 4.24 Bullish rising
three. three.
Thebearish falling three method(Figure 4.23) is a bearish continuation
pattern often associated with a bear flag formation on a bar chart. The pat-
tern starts with a long dark or black candle followed by three white candles
that close higher than the open. The three little candles usually remain within
the range of the first black candle, including both the real body and shadows.
Some argue that this pattern works with just two candles in the middle, but
the actual textbook classification is three white candles. The last portion of
this formation is a long dark candle that closes below the first black candle’s
close. This continuation pattern indicates prices will continue lower.
Thebullish rising three method(Figure 4.24) is a bullish continuation
pattern with the same characteristics as the bearish falling three method but
with just the opposite types of candles. During the beginning stages of an
advancing price trend, an unusually long white candle is followed by three
smaller dark or black candles that stay within the range of the first long white
candle. The last candle is a powerful advancing white candle that should
open above the previous session’s close and should close above the first long
white candle’s close as well. This is like a bull flag formation on western bar
charts and often indicates still higher prices to come.
READING CANDLE CHARTS
Now it’s time to look at the charts to see these candle patterns in action. Fig-
ure 4.25 provides an excellent opportunity to examine several topping and
bottoming formations in Treasury bond futures. The first one highlighted is
a shooting star formation, indicating that a top in the bond market was de-
veloping. As a general guideline, market tops take more time to develop than
market bottoms. To illustrate this point, note the retest of the high that forms
a secondary bearish pattern, a bearish engulfing candle.

P-04_4218 2/24/04 2:23 PM Page 53
Reading Candle Charts 53
Shooting star
Bearish engulfing candle
Hammer
FIGURE 4.25 Candle tops and bottoms. (Source:FutureSource. Reprinted with
permission.)
Let’s focus on the meaning of this candle. The challenge of the bulls’ re-
solve to move the price higher is defeated by sellers when the price cannot
successfully reach and surpass a new high. The significance of the secondary
pattern is that it reinforces the first bearish pattern and graphically illustrates
the market’s rejection of an attempt to reach a higher price. It shows that
buyers were liquidating longs not only when near the close of the previous
day but also below the open of the previous day. That clearly shows sellers
wanted to exit the door in a hurry.
With that signal, you can develop a trading plan to sell short in whatever
form of trading vehicle that may be—selling futures, buying puts, taking a
reverse position in an opposite-like trading market such as a long stock po-
sition, and the like. You might decide, for example, to sell below the low of
the bearish engulfing candle. In this example, I would want to place a stop
above the high of the shooting star candle and then trail the stop lower ac-
cording to your comfort level. (Stop placement techniques are covered in
more detail later in Chapter 12.)

P-04_4218 2/24/04 2:23 PM Page 54
54 CANDLE CHARTS: Lighting the Path
The reverse of a shooting star formation is the hammer, which sets the
bottom for the market. As the shooting star indicated a top, the hammer is
a reliable bottom reversal candle. Look at the normal ranges for the major-
ity of the candles in the downtrend, and you will not see a candle with a sim-
ilar range and that long a lower shadow. The uniqueness of the hammer
candle after a long downdraft is the first clue that a bottom is in place. The
same type of price action occurred as with the shooting start but in reverse:
Sellers were drying up, and buyers took over as market participants accepted
the low in price.
You may also hear terms for such conditions as a blow-off top or ex-
haustionmomentum patterns. These labels indicate that the price move or
trend has run its course and is ready for a reversal.
Figure 4.26 provides a valuable lesson for the importance of multiple
engulfing candles or more time periods that were consumed by one so-called
benchmark candle—in this case, we’ll call it a pillar of strength. In this sig-
nificant and powerful reversal formation, notice that it takes only one can-
dle to reverse the price action from the three previous periods. The long
The more candles that are engulfed,
the more power behind the buy signal!
The benchmark candle or “pillar of strength”
should demonstrate that the midpoint is a
solid support and then the opening is a
secondary support target.
The number 3
candle is “pierced”
3
(take candle 1 and
2 away).
1st Support
A bullish piercing
pattern formed.
2nd Support
2
1
FIGURE 4.26 Pillar of strength. (Source:FutureSource. Reprinted with permission.)

P-04_4218 2/24/04 2:23 PM Page 55
Reading Candle Charts 55
white candle engulfed the preceding number 1 and number 2 candles and
then penetrated and closed at the midpoint of candle number 3. This occur-
rence makes a valuable point: The more candles that are engulfed, the more
power behind the signal.
With a benchmark, cornerstone, or pillar of strength candle (the reverse
would be a pillar of weaknessfor a bearish engulfing pattern), the midpoint
of the candle is a target for the first support level. The opening should al-
ways be considered the second level of support or the last bastion for a
bullish defense line. Note on the chart how the first support point held the
corrective pullback during the first few days in August as the price came
back down to retest that midpoint and then shot back up to continue the
advance.
Figure 4.27 shows another example of a pillar of strength bullish engulf-
ing pattern on the cocoa futures chart. Notice the market retests the low
(point A) several sessions later as a hammer candle forms. The shadow is
about twice the measurement of the real body. The candle preceding the
Hammer
#2
#1
Bullish engulfing pattern consumes
#4
five prior candles and the real body
of the hammer!
1st low point “A”
FIGURE 4.27 Consuming candles. (Source:FutureSource. Reprinted with
permission.)

P-04_4218 2/24/04 2:23 PM Page 56
56 CANDLE CHARTS: Lighting the Path
hammer is a doji. That alone is a warning signal that a potential change in
direction is coming.
Look at how the pattern develops: doji, hammer, hammer, dark spinning
top, dark candle (lower close than open), and then the pillar of strength.
That single benchmark candle consumed the real bodies of four previous
candles. What a setup! The double bottom or, in essence, a triple bottom in-
dicated the bottoming pattern was finalized with the benchmark candle.
That area of congestion where smaller real bodies were consumed was the
final blow for the bears. Remember, the benchmark candle should provide
the first support level at about the middle of the range of its real body. In
this case, a retest of that level never happened.
Let’s look at shooting stars as reliable top reversal candles. On the ex-
ample silver futures chart shown as Figure 4.28, I identified a shooting star
followed by a potential doji in January 2002 (last two candles on right side)
after about a seven-week run to the upside. This market was due for a cor-
rection. I had made a sell recommendation in a weekly newsletter, The Bot-
tom Line Financial and Futures Report. That formation indicated that a
FIGURE 4.28 Shooting star top in silver. (Source:FutureSource. Reprinted with
permission.)

P-04_4218 2/24/04 2:23 PM Page 57
Reading Candle Charts 57
tug-of-war was going on between the bulls and the bears, and that a top had
formed based on those combined candles. More important, I had a second-
opinion indicator using pivot point analysis (discussed in detail in Chapter 6).
Look at the after picture (Figure 4.29). It shows a powerful selling wave
took command of the price in silver after this topping pattern occurred.
The weekly U.S. Dollar Index futures chart (Figure 4.30) illustrates that
candle chart patterns work not only on daily charts but for other time periods
as well. This chart is a great example of a market that had multiple trading
signals. Look at the shooting star formation that exposed the turning point
for the market during the first week in July. The next candle was a hang-
ing man that certainly warned that the trend was changing. The aftermath
was a complete market reversal that resulted in a 950-point decline within
21⁄2months.
Look at the bearish harami that formed at the end of January. The mar-
ket had made a long advance over nearly four months, and a long white can-
dle formed (meaning the market closed above the open and there were little
or no shadows). The next candle was a doji where the market had a wide
Shooting star
FIGURE 4.29 The market flamed out. (Source:FutureSource. Reprinted with
permission.)

P-04_4218 2/24/04 2:23 PM Page 58
58 CANDLE CHARTS: Lighting the Path
Shooting star
formation
Bearish harami
cross
FIGURE 4.30 Candles signal changing trends. (Source:FutureSource. Reprinted
with permission.)
range but closed at or near the open. Another observation is that the mar-
ket was forming a major double top with the June high.
A plan of attack might be to sell short a position and place an initial stop
as a close-only order above the January high. The reason I would have used
that as my risk target is that if the market retested that high, I would not want
to be stopped out and then have to watch the market price fall off from the
high. I would want to be out only if a new all-time high close above that level
signaled the market’s acceptance of a new high price and would probably
advance to newer highs.
Eight to ten new recordsis one candle formation that I have not used
often but does warrant mentioning. According to Japanese candle charting
practices, when the market price either advances or declines by making eight
to ten new highs or lows, it can signal that the advance or decline should sub-
side. Such an occurrence could warrant establishing a position. In a bearish
market, for example, when the eighth or ninth new low occurs and a bull-
ish candle such as a hammer or a doji appears within one or two days, then
a bottom potentially could be formed. I would construe that as a buy signal

P-04_4218 2/24/04 2:23 PM Page 59
Reading Candle Charts 59
and put a stop close-only order below the lowest low. If the market truly is
ready to turn around, it should not close below the established low at that
time. The opposite is true for bullish or advancing markets.
Look at the weekly U.S. Dollar Index chart again (Figure 4.30). If you
count how many higher highs were made after the low in September 2001,
you will see that nine record highs occurred prior to a bearish harami cross
in early 2002. The ninth high was actually made by a doji. This confirmation
by a different technique should have helped to initiate a response such as
developing a short trading strategy. In addition to just selling a futures po-
sition, a trader is now armed with a good indication that the market may fall
and may decide instead to buy put options, sell calls, or form some other
bearish option strategy.
Now examine Figure 4.31 for the after picture. Remember, this is a
weekly chart so this move did not just happen overnight. Also, note that an-
other eight to ten new records situation developed again on the downtrend
in the first half of 2002. This chart demonstrates that candle patterns do
work on different time frames.
Bearish harami cross
FIGURE 4.31 Broken records. (Source:FutureSource. Reprinted with permission.)

P-04_4218 2/24/04 2:23 PM Page 60
60 CANDLE CHARTS: Lighting the Path
A casual investor who may want to pick trades more carefully should
be aware of the eight to ten new records high or low technique. When ana-
lyzing markets and trading for profits, the more studies that can strengthen
your conviction or give you more confidence to do the trade and or stay
with a position, the better.
The bearish harami cross is a short seller’s most powerful weapon. The
U.S. Dollar Index chart (Figure 4.31) provides a dynamic example of this
trading signal. The fact is that the longer the time period, the longer the
trade signal may work.
Looking at a shorter time frame, a bearish harami on a 15-minute chart
for the Dow Jones Industrial Average futures contract (Figure 4.32) warned
that a short-term uptrend might be coming to an end. The long white can-
dle is followed by a doji, which forms the two-candle harami cross pattern.
The next candle is another doji, which appears to be the straw that breaks
the bulls’ backs as they toss in the towel.
The bearish harami cross is confirmed by yet another formation, a bear-
ish engulfing pattern. Notice that the long dark candle engulfs the preceding
white candle plus the prior two dojis and even closes below the open, close,
Doji
Bearish
engulfing tower
of weakness!
Bearish
harami
cross
FIGURE 4.32 Crossing sign. (Source:FutureSource. Reprinted with permission.)

P-04_4218 2/24/04 2:23 PM Page 61
Candles Plus 61
and low for all three of those time frames. That bearish engulfing pattern—
or “tower of weakness” as I call it—was the sell signal that indicated you
should head for the hills if you were long or to sell and then place stops
above the high of that move. At the very least, identifying this sequence of
patterns may have kept you from staying long or, worse yet, buying the high
of that move.
CANDLES PLUS
Various candle patterns alone provide excellent trading signals for any
timeframe. In addition, however, you should be using other technical stud-
ies such as stochastics and moving averages or perhaps moving average
convergence/divergence (MACD) as well as pivot point analysis to help give
you the confidence you need to execute a trade. Once you have the knowl-
edge that you need to identify what the formation means as market condi-
tions change, you will understand when and why to enter a trade or to bail
out of a position.
To further highlight my point about using different time frames and tech-
niques, let’s look at three charts for Japanese yen futures. First, let me make
a few observations about the foreign exchange market, the largest financial
market in the world with a daily turnover of more than $1.5 trillion. Forex
markets have no physical location and no central exchange, operating
through an electronic network of banks, corporations, and individuals trad-
ing one currency against another.
Forex trading has increased tremendously since the late 1990s as more
individual traders have become aware of currency fluctuations and the ad-
vantages of cash forex trading over trading in currency futures. In addition
to 24-hour trading, most forex firms do not charge commissions or exchange
fees but pick up profits from their bid/ask spreads. Most forex dealers offer
free real-time quotes, charts, and online order entry platforms all on one
screen and provide demo accounts to practice trading with free real-time
quotes. One such company, Proedgefx.com, handles substantial volume
and offers some of the tightest spreads in the industry.
Technical traders are attracted to the forex market because candle-
stick charting and almost all forms of technical analysis work with this in-
credibly liquid market, because substantial leverage is available, and because
trends can persist for many months or even years due to the influence of gov-
ernment policies and political pressures. As participants, hedge funds and
large financial institutions also tend to exert their influence to keep cur-
rency values in line. Many U.S. forex firms are now registered with and reg-
ulated by the Commodity Futures Trading Commission and National Futures
Association.

P-04_4218 2/24/04 2:23 PM Page 62
62 CANDLE CHARTS: Lighting the Path
The chart examples used here, however, show the yen futures contract
traded at the Chicago Mercantile Exchange, the finest exchange in the
world for currency trading for a position trader or someone who wants to
trade options on currencies. The first is a monthly chart (Figure 4.33) of the
Japanese yen from late 1996 through February 2002. What does this chart
reveal to you? Some might conclude that the lows in 1998 could be retested
and that the market has more room to go lower. However, I saw an area
where the 2002 market was testing the lows of the moving averages in 1998,
not the actual lows. Go back in time and think what was happening in
1998—the Asian financial crisis, Long-Term Capital Management hedge fund
collapse, the Fed lowered interest rates, and Japanese Central Bank inter-
vention was helping to prop up the yen.
The second chart (Figure 4.34) is a daily chart of the March yen con-
tract that indicates a potential bottom forming in February 2002. A potential
bullish piercing pattern and the inability of the market to show any follow-
through weakness near a substantial low pretty well gave a clue that a
benchmark low was being established.
FIGURE 4.33 Monthly yen: What does it say? (Source:FutureSource. Reprinted with
permission.)

P-04_4218 2/24/04 2:23 PM Page 63
Candles Plus 63
FIGURE 4.34 Daily yen: Go long? (Source:FutureSource. Reprinted with permission.)
One more aspect about deciding on the future price direction of this mar-
ket was that the overall pessimism of analysts, traders, and the media was
high. Bullish Consensus and the Commodity Futures Trading Commis-
sion’sCommitments of Tradersreport revealed that large and small spec-
ulators were mostly short this market and that commercial traders were
long. (These reports are discussed in detail in Chapter 9.)
Here’s a summary of how a decision was made to go long or to buy call
options:
• The investment community was extremely bearish.
• The monthly long-term chart showed the current market price was dig-
ging into the area where the moving average lows (not price lows) had
occurred in 1998.
• The daily chart was demonstrating that prices were supported near the
7450 level.
• On a fundamental note, the Japanese Central Bank was intervening to
support the yen’s value, adding a strong buying force to the market mix.

P-04_4218 2/24/04 2:23 PM Page 64
64 CANDLE CHARTS: Lighting the Path
Now you have a market that has made a significant decline back down
to an area where governments step in to provide price protection and the
speculating community was bearish after the fact. The daily candle charts
were signaling to me that the downmove was subsiding. The third chart
(Figure 4.35) shows what had happened on the June yen chart and why it
helps not to get too “bearish in the hole.” The fact that the charts from dif-
ferent time frames helped me conclude that a buying opportunity might exist
was also the correct call.
The move that occurred between the 7450 and 7950 levels resulted in a
short, sharp 500-point rally. Notice that it took this market nearly another
month to begin moving, but move it did! Of course, you might say, “Well,
that was too long to wait around to make money.” Fine. The important point
is that you can see that selling short would have been a bad decision with
prices near the 7450 area. This type of charting analysis may not have got-
ten you to buy the low and stay with the position, but I do believe that by
checking different time periods you would not have sold short either, risking
a lot of money.
FIGURE 4.35 Daily yen: getting the reward. (Source:FutureSource. Reprinted with
permission.)

P-04_4218 2/24/04 2:23 PM Page 65
Candles Plus 65
The weekly bond chart (Figure 4.36) provides another example of multi-
ple candle patterns that come together to confirm price direction and give
you confidence to act to stay on the right side of the market. The morning doji
star that formed in March signaled that a major bottom was in place and
gave a clear buy signal. Then the continuation pattern of a rising three
method provided a clue that the trend was going to continue. Acting like the
western bull flag formation, this pattern projected prices would reach the 108
level. As you can see from the chart, that price objective was attained, plus
another 5 points.
One other point about different time frames: If it takes, for example,
three time frames for a pattern to develop, it usually takes at least three or
more time frames for the results—in this case, the price advance—to
develop.
These aren’t the only candle chart patterns and signals. However, if you
would like more information on the complexities of this technique and want
to continue your studies in this field, I can refer you to several books on this
Rising three methods
formation
Morning doji star
FIGURE 4.36 Multiple buy patterns in bonds. (Source:FutureSource. Reprinted with
permission.)

P-04_4218 2/24/04 2:23 PM Page 66
66 CANDLE CHARTS: Lighting the Path
subject. Start with Japanese Candlestick Charting Techniques by Steve
Nison. Then study his other book, Beyond Candlesticks, or his recent video
course. Libraries often have copies of these books, or you can go to a book-
store or to www.candlecharts.com to buy a copy for your personal library.
Also, as mentioned in Chapter 3, if you ever have the opportunity to
take a trading course taught by Dan Gramza, I strongly recommend that you
consider taking it.
One final point: Like other techniques, candle chart analysis is not an
exact science. It is always necessary to validate signals and chart patterns
manually, even when you have expert software designed to identify various
patterns for you. I still believe the best way to get a feel for the market and to
watch for certain identifiable patterns is by looking at the chart and incorpo-
rating other techniques such as moving averages and other forms of techni-
cal analysis for confirmation of a tradable setup. Looking at a chart with the
pivot point numbers in front of you allows a more three-dimensional look
into daily, weekly, or monthly price projections that could be of immeasur-
able value to your trading.

P-05_4218 2/24/04 2:26 PM Page 67
CHAPTER 5
Chart Analysis
Volume, Open Interest,
Price Patterns
Choose a job you love, and you will never have to
work a day in your life.
—Confucius
N
ow we are getting to the real meat and potatoes of technical analysis.
This chapter explains and illustrates the importance of various chart
patterns and analysis typically associated with bar charting but ap-
plicable to other types of analysis as well.
We look first at volume and open interest, two items included on many
data services but which, for the most part, seem to be ignored by a lot of in-
dividual traders with whom I have talked. These are important tools so let’s
review the basics.
VOLUME
Volumeis simply the number of trades executed during a specified period—
one trader buys and one trader sells and the volume is one. The volume fig-
ure usually released by the exchange is a total for all of the contract months
of a given market. For example, if the e-mini S&P trades the March, June,
September, and December contract months, the volume represents the total
of all the trades, long and short combined, for all the months.
Most technical analysts believe that volume is an indicator of the
strength of a market trend. Because it is also a relative measure of the dom-
inant behavior of the market, analysts regard volume as an important aspect
67

P-05_4218 2/24/04 2:26 PM Page 68
68 CHART ANALYSIS: Volume, Open Interest, Price Patterns
of analysis, particularly when trading stocks. Futures exchanges do not re-
lease volume figures for a regular session until the next day for many con-
tracts. As a result, futures traders have had to adapt by using other methods
to detect market strength such as pivot point analysis, moving average stud-
ies, Bollinger bands, or simply chart pattern recognition skills. When the vol-
ume numbers are released by the exchanges, they can be used to verify the
trend or price action from a daily charting perspective.
John Bollinger, one of my radio show guests, contends that “volume is
everything,” especially when combined with a trading tool such as Bollinger
bands, which he developed, or Larry Williams’s accumulation/distribution
indicator. In fact, Bollinger, who has a Chartered Market Technician desig-
nation from the Market Technicians Association and has been an analyst
for FNN and CNBC, calls volume “the crux of analysis.” He also suggests
that one of the best things a new trader can do to learn about the markets is
to take a course in human psychology at a local community college. Bollinger
has a wealth of technical knowledge, so his opinion is widely respected.
Volume is important because it is a measurement of the market’s accep-
tance or rejection of price at a specific level and time. There are several
guidelines for using volume analysis on price charts. The first one is that if
a market is increasing in price and volume is increasing, the market is con-
sidered to be in a bullish mode and can support further price increases. The
exact opposite is true for a declining market. However, if a substantial daily
market price increase or decrease occurs after a long steady uptrend or
downtrend and has an unusually high volume period, it is considered to be
a blow-off top or bottom and can signal a market turning point or trend
reversal.
OPEN INTEREST
Open interestreveals the total number of positions that are still open and
outstanding, that is, they have not been closed by an offsetting trade or de-
livered upon. Remember, futures trading is a zero-sum game so that for
every long there is a short and for every short there is a long—a buyer for
every seller and a seller for every buyer. The open interest figure represents
the longs or shorts but not the total of both.
Consider it like a money flow indicator. The general guideline for open
interest is that when prices rise and open interest increases, this activity
suggests that more new longs have entered the market and more new money
is flowing into the market, reflecting why the price increased. Of course,
the exact opposite is true in a declining market.

P-05_4218 2/24/04 2:26 PM Page 69
Putting the Data Together 69
PUTTING THE DATA TOGETHER
The value of open interest figures comes from combining them with both
price movement and data from volume to evaluate the condition of the mar-
ket. If there is a price increase on strong volume and open interest increases,
then this is a signal that there is more buying interest that could mean a
continued trend advance. If prices increase but volume stays relatively flat
or declines and open interest declines, then this reflects a weakening mar-
ket condition. This is considered to be a bearish situation because the com-
bination of rising prices and declining open interest indicates that shorts
are covering by buying back their positions rather than new longs entering
the market. That activity would give a trader a clue that there is a potential
trend reversal coming.
It is important to understand the concept of matching price and trad-
ing activity. If you are watching a continuing long-term trend in a futures
contract, whether the direction is up or down, and prices start to fluctuate
with wider than normal daily swings or ranges—that is, extremely volatile
movements—combined with unusually strong volume and a decline in open
interest, you may be in a climaxing market condition and seeing a clue for
a potential major trend reversal coming. Figure 5.1 shows an example that
marked the end of a bull market in bond futures.
It appears that bond traders who were short threw in the towel by buy-
ing to cover their positions and that the longs took profits by selling out of
their positions. All of this activity would explain the higher than normal vol-
ume. When the longs liquidated their positions, this was reflected by a de-
cline in open interest.
As for the wild price advance, shorts were bailing out of the market
almost in a panic state of mind, and longs were not willing to sell too cheap,
explaining the upward price behavior. These three characteristics are needed
to complete a climaxing top or bottom. Most volume and open interest
followers watch for this setup as a major sell signal. This condition is ex-
actly what happened to the bonds, producing a truly remarkable textbook
sell signal.
These concepts of volume and open interest can help any trader under-
stand the underlying market condition and the current trend. With that in-
formation, you may decide to buy dips instead of selling intraday rallies.
The fact that the exchanges do not publish open interest data for many
markets until the following day at about noon is a problem for analysts. Es-
timated volume figures are available after the markets close but not the ac-
tual numbers. Most financial papers report the information the day after that.
So it is important to know where to get the information faster than by read-
ing it in the newspaper. If you want to learn to become an avid disciple of

P-05_4218 2/24/04 2:26 PM Page 70
70 CHART ANALYSIS: Volume, Open Interest, Price Patterns
Heavy spike
in volume
FIGURE 5.1 Spiking a bond bull. (Source:FutureSource. Reprinted with permission.)
charting and want information on volume and open interest sooner, you
can go the exchange web sites.
CHART PATTERNS
Chart pattern recognition, without a doubt, provides a true sense of price
forecasting, but it works significantly better in hindsight than it does in an-
ticipating a price pattern for the future. You can watch for many patterns or
formations on a typical bar chart, formations that have certain predictable
qualities as you try to forecast a future price move. But chart analysis is like
being an artist trying to paint a picture that some other artist started, illus-
trating why technical analysis is considered to be an art form rather than a
work of science.
At the very least, chart pattern recognition is a subjective method open
to different interpretations by different individuals. Every trader has to do
his or her own homework. I might see a head-and-shoulders top pattern; you

P-05_4218 2/24/04 2:26 PM Page 71
Chart Patterns 71
might be anticipating a long-term double bottom. Who is going to be right,
only the markets will tell.
Good brokers may point out to their customers some opportunities
that exist in the market, but really good brokers will insist that customers
do their own homework and look at a chart themselves. The problem is that
some customers don’t know how or even what to look at! This book is in-
tended to help those people.
The real essence of trading is to buy near levels of support and to sell
near levels of resistance. The task of the analyst is to find out what is sup-
port and what is resistance. The job of a trader is to capture the market’s re-
action off those levels and profit from it.
This chapter shows you what I believe are the more reliable and popu-
lar chart patterns and how they can be effective in identifying support and
resistance levels. More important is which ones generate reliable buy and
sell signals. It was once told to me that the most reliable signal is the one that
doesn’t work. At the time I thought that didn’t make sense until I understood
why there are no guarantees in this business. Remembering that nothing is
100 percent reliable in technical analysis or in trading, let’s look at some
chart formations, and you can test for yourself what you see.
M Tops, W Bottoms, or 1-2-3 Patterns
One of the more reliable chart patterns is a W bottom,also known as a dou-
ble bottom,with a higher right-side breakout. You want to be sensitive to this
chart pattern because it has a higher frequency of occurring, but you want
to make a note: Not all W bottoms break out to the upside or have the same
type of reaction off the bottom.
The cocoa chart provided as Figure 5.2 illustrates how this pattern
forms. Price makes a low after a downtrend (point 1), then rallies to make
a reactionary high (point 2). Then the price falls back again to retest the low
but does not go as low as the previous low (point 3), followed by another
price rally that goes beyond the first reactionary high, generating a buy sig-
nal. In this case, the W or 1-2-3 formation was confirmed once the market
closed above the November 1 high (point 2).
The inverse of this pattern is dubbed an M topor1-2-3 swing top for-
mation. The market hits a high, sets back to an interim low, rallies but does
not exceed the earlier high, and falls back below the interim low, the point
at which a sell signal is generated.
Head-and-Shoulders Tops or Bottoms
Thehead-and-shoulders toporinverted head-and-shoulders bottomcan
be used not only to indicate price direction but also as a measuring or

P-05_4218 2/24/04 2:26 PM Page 72
72 CHART ANALYSIS: Volume, Open Interest, Price Patterns
1-2-3 W
bottom formation
2
3
1
FIGURE 5.2 W reversal. (Source:FutureSource. Reprinted with permission.)
projecting indicator (Figure 5.3). Head-and-shoulder tops or bottoms are
considered to be a strong indicator of major trend reversals, depending on
how the market reacts at the neckline of the pattern.
Four components are involved. Looking at the topping version of the
pattern, first, the left shoulder is formed as prices rally and then fall back.
Second, the market rallies again and a higher high occurs, forming the head.
Third, prices slip back, reaching a low that about matches the previous low;
rally to about the same height as the left shoulder high; then sink back again
to the earlier lows, forming the right shoulder. The fourth element is the so-
called neckline, a trend line along the bottoms of the two lows. If prices drop
below the neckline, the reversing action of the head-and-shoulders topping
pattern is completed, and prices are expected to continue to move lower
after what is usually a tug-of-war in the vicinity of the neckline.
The symmetry or distance is important in the head-and-shoulders pat-
tern. The distance from the left shoulder to the head should be about the
same as the distance from the head to the right shoulder. The levels of the
shoulder highs should be about the same as should the levels of the lows

P-05_4218 2/24/04 2:26 PM Page 73
Chart Patterns 73
Head
Shoulder
Shoulder
Neckline
Measuring
objective
FIGURE 5.3 Head-and-shoulders measurement. (Source:FutureSource. Reprinted
with permission.)
that form the neckline. Next, if you measure the distance from the shoulder
highs (some analysts use the top of the head) to the neckline and subtract
that distance from the neckline, the result is the next price target level.
You can use the same type of process with an inverted head-and-
shoulders bottom to project where the next higher price target should be.
Gap Analysis
The definition of a gapfor a technical analyst is an area on a chart that is left
blank when the market trades from one period to another above or below the
previous time period’s high or low price range. Gaps do occur frequently in
illiquid markets and, thus, have no importance to you. However, when gaps
occur in liquid markets and on high volume, those are the gaps on which you
want to focus.
Gaps have several classifications and meanings. First, there are the com-
mon gaps,which are usually insignificant and are filled by prices retreating
into the gap sometime down the road as they retest that price area. Previous

P-05_4218 2/24/04 2:26 PM Page 74
74 CHART ANALYSIS: Volume, Open Interest, Price Patterns
levels left from gaps are considered targets of support when they are below
the current market price or targets of resistance when they are above the
current market price. The theory is that it took considerable energy to jump
from one point to the next to create the gap in the first place. Returning
back to that level is considered completing unfinished business.
The next type of gap often comes in a series of three (Figure 5.4). The
breakaway gap,as its name implies, signals a break from the previous price
direction and the beginning of a new direction. It usually occurs at an area
of congestion near a top or bottom. The second gap in this series is the mid-
pointormeasuring gap. That terminology again is probably self-explanatory
as it signals that the move is about half over—that is, you can measure the
distance from the first gap to the second and use that distance to get an idea
where the market is headed. The third gap in this series is the exhaustion
gap, which signals that market participants are tired and capitulating. It
usually indicates that a directional trend is completed and a turning point
is coming.
To illustrate a point about the validity of multiple verification techniques,
not only were the three gaps on the sugar chart (Figure 5.4) present and ob-
Breakaway gap
Midpoint gap
Exhaustion gap
FIGURE 5.4 Three gaps down. (Source:FutureSource. Reprinted with permission.)

P-05_4218 2/24/04 2:26 PM Page 75
Chart Patterns 75
vious but the distance of the gaps was essential in determining the bottom
as well. In addition, the monthly pivot point support number was 6.09. The
actual low was 6.11! But we’ll get to pivot point analysis in Chapter 6. The
soybean chart (Figure 5.5) also identifies a three-gap series clearly, in this
case, in an uptrend. Identifying the three gaps may not have convinced you
to enter a long position in soybeans, but I believe that if you identified them,
it would have at least prevented you from going long at the top.
The last classification of gaps and the most powerful of all gap forma-
tions is the island patternthat occurs at a top or bottom. In an island top,
the market gaps up from a previous bar, trades at the higher level for a bar
or maybe a few bars, and then leaves a gap below the previous bar’s range
as prices collapse into a downtrend. It is a combination of an exhaustion
gap on the upside and a breakaway on the downside and leaves a block of
price action isolated by a void. The more popular islands stay within a three-
bar period, but some technicians believe that price action over several days
and even weeks can still form the island pattern.
Exhaustion
gaps
Midpoint or
measuring gap
Breakaway gap
FIGURE 5.5 Three gaps up. (Source:FutureSource. Reprinted with permission.)

P-05_4218 2/24/04 2:26 PM Page 76
76 CHART ANALYSIS: Volume, Open Interest, Price Patterns
Islands generate a very strong signal and should not be ignored, as sug-
gested by the island bottom on the sugar futures chart shown as Figure 5.6.
Trend Line Analysis
Trend lines are the simplest, most basic means of market analysis but get at
the essence of what analysis and trading are all about. Identifying whether
the market is moving up, down, or sideways and being able to profit from
that information is the goal of every trader.
To draw a simple trend line, all you do is connect the dots, so to speak.
For an uptrend, you just draw a line from one low on the chart to the next
major low. The simple definition of an uptrend is a series of higher lows and
higher highs.
Trend line analysis can be applied several ways in making a trading de-
cision. Some traders use trend line breaks to enter a position. Others use
the trend line as support in an uptrend, entering a long position when the
price is near the extended support line. Others note that when prices get
Island formation as 3-day gap exists
from gap down on 6th day and gap
up from 9th trading day of the month.
FIGURE 5.6 Stranded on an island. (Source:FutureSource. Reprinted with permission.)

P-05_4218 2/24/04 2:26 PM Page 77
Chart Patterns 77
too far away from a trend line, they are likely to revert back to the trend
line. For example, in late May silver futures prices moved way off the trend
line formed during April and early May (Figure 5.7). When the market
blasted up to the $5.17 high in early June (also a nice example of an evening
star formation, by the way), notice how prices came back to the extended
trend line.
Trading using trend line analysis is relatively simple but, like any other
type of analysis, is not foolproof. Even if you have defined exactly where a
trend line for an uptrend will intersect with prices on the chart, prices may
not quite reach that point, leaving your order unfilled, or they may break
through a support line and just keep going down, leaving you with a loss.
Again, a reminder: Technical analysis is not an exact science. Consider
the trend line as only a guide to the direction of market prices.
One situation that deserves some discussion is the test of broken sup-
port. When long-term support lines are broken, traders usually talk about a
breakout occurring. The momentum of the market causes prices to drop dra-
matically, and the price decline often is exaggerated. What can happen to
FIGURE 5.7 Sticking to the trend. (Source:FutureSource. Reprinted with permission.)

P-05_4218 2/24/04 2:26 PM Page 78
78 CHART ANALYSIS: Volume, Open Interest, Price Patterns
traders if they chase the market after the move has occurred is that when
they sell short, they usually get filled at the low of that move.
If you study charts and trend lines, you will see that, in most cases, the
market will try to retest the area from which it fell. In other words, once
the support line is broken, the market will try to revisit that area, and the
old support now becomes a new resistance level. The gold chart provided
as Figure 5.8 shows how prices broke the uptrend line, only to come back
to test it three days later. If you had been chasing the market, you might
be short from the $310 to the $315 area instead of waiting for that re-
test near $325. Look at the results shown in Figure 5.9. A double top forms
with a bearish dark candle signal, and the price fails from the retest of the
support/resistance line.
Trend line analysis is a necessary foundation tool to help identify other
chart patterns that develop from significant support and resistance price
levels. It is subjective. What I see on the charts could be completely differ-
ent from what you see. But that is one facet of what makes markets. The mar-
FIGURE 5.8 Test and retesting the trend line. (Source:FutureSource. Reprinted with
permission.)

P-05_4218 2/24/04 2:26 PM Page 79
Chart Patterns 79
Market breaks
support then
retests trend.
FIGURE 5.9 Tumble from a retest zone. (Source:FutureSource. Reprinted with
permission.)
ket will judge who is right and who is wrong. The technical analyst just wants
to follow the trend and profit from it. It is very important that you learn these
charting techniques for yourself.
Trend Channels
Trend channels are self-explanatory—the market bounces between two
parallel trend lines defined by the highs and lows that form the support and
resistance boundaries. The trick is to successfully identify the support or
resistance lines early in the channel’s development. Once they are estab-
lished, traders can go long or buy near the support line or sell short or liqui-
date longs near resistance lines. The element of risk is that the market breaks
out from this channel or band.
Chartists can trade another method using these so-called bands: Buy
once the market breaks out above the resistance line and sell when the mar-
ket breaks below the support line. Keep in mind that once the market breaks

P-05_4218 2/24/04 2:26 PM Page 80
80 CHART ANALYSIS: Volume, Open Interest, Price Patterns
out above or below its trading range, it generally will try to retest the origi-
nal trend, as Figure 5.9, the weekly gold chart, and Figure 5.10, the S&P 500
hourly chart, illustrate.
Points A and B identify the uptrend on the S&P chart. Notice how the
market danced or bounced off the trend line from point C to point D, a great
example of the axiom, “What was once support is now resistance.”
Triangle Chart Patterns
Charts display a number of triangle patterns, which usually reflect some type
of congestion area or indecision about prices. There are three main types of
triangles: symmetrical, ascending, and descending (Figure 5.11).
Thesymmetrical triangleis also known as a pennantor a coiling for-
mationas the pattern forms from a series of highs that are lower than the
preceding high and a series of lows that are higher than the preceding low.
Triangles form as the market consolidates while market participants are de-
ciding whether to commit to a position or add to positions already estab-
lished. This so-called timeout period usually involves a decline in volatility.
“D” Last “test” of
trend line support
“C”
“B”
First break or
“A” violation of
trend line support
Trend line drawn from points “A” to “B.”
Trend line support is broken at point “C.”
Old support now reverses role and turns
into resistance. Point “D” shows last
unsuccessful retest of the uptrend and prices
reverse downward.
FIGURE 5.10 Trending channels. (Source:FutureSource. Reprinted with permission.)

P-05_4218 2/24/04 2:26 PM Page 81
Chart Patterns 81
Descending
triangle
Symmetrical
triangle
Ascending
triangle
FIGURE 5.11 Multiple triangles. (Source:FutureSource. Reprinted with permission.)
Ascending trianglesindicate an upward bias, with a flat top and a se-
ries of higher lows. Generally, the bottom slope of the triangle coincides
with the trend or a trend to be. The example on the soybean chart (Figure
5.11), coming after an island gap and a gap higher, indicates a very strong
upside reaction could occur, which, in fact, did happen. In this case, the mar-
ket was too impatient to fill in the entire triangle with price action between
the flat top resistance line and the upward sloping support line to complete
the price action to form the apex of the triangle.
Similarly, the descending triangle indicates a downward bias—a flat
bottom support off which prices bounce for a time and a series of lower
highs that come together into an apex. It also flows with the direction of the
trend or the trend to be.
As a rule, triangles are used as continuation patterns and serve as a
measuring guide for the extent of a move. The length of time it takes the
triangle or congestion area to form is regarded as the distance a market will
move once it breaks out of the triangle pattern. The more powerful break-
outs seem to occur when the triangle does not entirely complete the coil-
ing process to the apex or tip of the triangle—the market appears to be

P-05_4218 2/24/04 2:26 PM Page 82
82 CHART ANALYSIS: Volume, Open Interest, Price Patterns
impatient to advance or continue the move, as with the ascending triangle
on the soybean chart (Figure 5.11).
If you buy the upside breakout of a symmetrical triangle in an uptrending
market, then you should place a stop below the first low point that estab-
lishes the bottom support line. The reverse is true when you sell a downside
breakout in a downtrend.
Here is a cautionary note: Triangles, just like other techniques, are not
a completely reliable trading pattern. They do have false breakouts, and
traders need to be aware that the longer the triangle takes to form, the less
power the breakout usually has behind it. Generally speaking, based on a
daily chart time frame, triangles can take 6 to 10 trading days or up to 2
weeks to develop, occasionally even longer. They can develop on intraday
charts such as 15-minute and even 60-minute charts, and they can show up
on weekly charts.
Monthly charts occasionally show triangles, but considering the length
of time and rolling out of expired contracts in commodity markets, triangles
are not so prevalent in my research. Due to the difference of seasonal price
pressures on most commodities—harvest supply pressures for agriculture
products, for example—pricing of deferred contracts makes triangles on
monthly charts ineffective, in my opinion.
Wedge Patterns
Wedge patterns are simply longer extensions of the triangle. These patterns
often form in the direction of the trend, meaning a rising wedge would form
in an uptrend. The difference between a wedge and the triangle, in addition
to taking longer to form, is that the market trades so that prices do not form
a pattern anywhere close to the apex of the wedge.
The Eurodollar chart shown as Figure 5.12 illustrates a long-term price
wedge. The trend is up, and notice how the pattern forms with increasing
lows above support and decreasing highs below resistance. The distance of
the wedge opening added to the point of the breakout, which occurs in mid-
April, is the extension or measuring distance you can use to determine a
price objective. This measurement is not an absolute rule of wedges as they
can vary in length and size. If a chart pattern appears to be an elongated tri-
angle but looks more like a flattened angle, then it is considered a wedge
formation.
Diamond Formations
Diamonds provide another measuring technique that is reliable, but they are
a rare occurrence. Most times they are considered a topping pattern, sort of
like a head-and-shoulders top. They rarely show up as bottom patterns, but

P-05_4218 2/24/04 2:26 PM Page 83
Chart Patterns 83
FIGURE 5.12 Wedge measurement. (Source:FutureSource. Reprinted with permission.)
they can and do act as continuation patterns. When acting as a continuation
pattern, you should consider them as a bull flag except the formation takes
the shape of a diamond (Figure 5.13). The distance from the base of the
move in March to the height of the diamond was the measurement you could
have used to project the distance from the point of the breakout or the end
point of the diamond to derive a price objective.
Flag Formations
Flags are much more common than the diamond or some other formations.
Flags can be seen on five-minute to weekly charts and on rising or declining
trends. In a rising market, the base of the flag is the starting point for a sub-
stantial price advance (or decline in the case of a bear flag formation). It is
then followed by erratic and choppy downward price action that lasts for
several time periods—a consolidation period or a timeout while the mar-
ket sorts out buying and selling pressure. The flag usually forms a smaller
countertrend that serves as a correction or a pause in a price trend before
prices usually continue on in the direction from which they entered the

P-05_4218 2/24/04 2:26 PM Page 84
84 CHART ANALYSIS: Volume, Open Interest, Price Patterns
FIGURE 5.13 Diamond measurement. (Source:FutureSource. Reprinted with
permission.)
flag formation. A flag on a daily chart can take as little as three to five days
or as long as five weeks to form as the soybean chart provided as Figure 5.14
confirms. Of course, on an intraday chart whatever time period you are
using would require at least three to five bars to form.
As a measuring technique, analysts take the distance from the bottom
of the flagpole to the top of the pole. Then take that distance and extend it
up (or down for a bear trend) from the bottom of the flag to get an idea how
far prices will move (some add the flagpole distance to the breakout point
to arrive at a price objective). Another old-time adage is that the flag flies at
half-mast—that is, it is at the halfway point of an extended move—so you
can expect prices to advance above the flag (in a bull trend) by the same
distance as they moved up below the flag.
Pennants
Pennants are in the same category as a flag formation except that the shape
of the consolidation area more closely resembles a triangle although it is

P-05_4218 2/24/04 2:26 PM Page 85
Chart Patterns 85
Measuring objective
Flagpole
FIGURE 5.14 Displaying the flag. (Source:FutureSource. Reprinted with permission.)
slightly more condensed than the triangle. It is another portrayal of a pause
in the trend and is usually a continuation pattern.
Funnel Formations
Funnel formations are also known as foghornsin view of the market’s ex-
panding tops and bottoms. They do not happen often and represent ex-
tremely choppy or volatile scenarios. They usually form in a series of three
waves of higher highs and lower lows. Just when you believe the market has
broken support, a rally occurs and makes higher highs. You would rather
trade later than getting in at the early stage of this formation.
Figure 5.15, a soybean chart, captures a great example of an expanding
top pattern. I numbered the highs and lows in the sequence that they oc-
curred rather than try to identify waves to help illustrate the characteristics
of the funnel top. Point 1 establishes the first high as it breaks out and closes
higher than the currently established high back in January. Point 2 is the
secondary high of the move. Point 3 is the first reactionary low from Point

P-05_4218 2/24/04 2:26 PM Page 86
86 CHART ANALYSIS: Volume, Open Interest, Price Patterns
5
2 Measure
the height
of the
1 wedge
3
4
The distance from the height
of the wedge gives measurement
of price objective.
FIGURE 5.15 Expanding top means volatility. (Source:FutureSource. Reprinted
with permission.)
2. Notice that the market makes a lower low at Point 4 and then Point 5 is
a higher high than Point 2.
This pattern certainly can whipsaw a trader. Once you became con-
vinced that support was broken at Point 4, new highs popped up. Then, just
as you thought the move could continue higher as Point 5 took out Point 2,
the market came tumbling down. Remember, volatility often marks tops and
bottoms. This formation is another way of confirming that, when the mar-
ket’s trend does finally change, it usually is not a small price reversal, as the
chart illustrates. These are the types of patterns that may give a trader the
confidence to ride a trend a while longer.
Rounding Bottoms and Tops
Rounding bottom and top patterns clearly involve a longer-term trend re-
versal process. A market feature I heard about long ago applies here: Mar-
kets will try to scare you out or bore you out of a position. With the
rounding bottom on the gold chart shown as Figure 5.16, you can see that you

P-05_4218 2/24/04 2:26 PM Page 87
Chart Patterns 87
FIGURE 5.16 Rounding bottom: How boring! (Source: Gecko Software, Inc.
Reprinted with permission.)
could easily succumb to boredom during the gradual semicircular bottom-
ing action.
The rounding bottom pattern can also be classified, to some degree, as
an inverted head-and-shoulders formation and is also termed a saucer bot-
tom. The battle between bulls and bears or buyers and sellers develops over
a period of time to form this established basing action. The magnitude of
the strength and reliability that this bottom pattern carries with it depends
on the severity of the prior trend from which it developed. In other words,
after a long and continuous downtrend, the shift or change in trend captured
by a rising bottom can be a powerful reversal.
On Figure 5.16, for example, an extensive long-term decline brought
prices down below $270 before the tide began to turn and prices finally ad-
vanced toward $390, nearly a 50 percent price appreciation. The long-term
bottoming phase might certainly have distracted an investor from carrying
a long position off the bottom, which occurred in February–March 2001. The
majority of the rally did not even begin to take place until well over a year
later when prices began to edge above the lip of the saucer in 2002.

P-05_4218 2/24/04 2:26 PM Page 88
88 CHART ANALYSIS: Volume, Open Interest, Price Patterns
The situation illustrated in Figure 5.16 is a great example of how a mar-
ket can bore you out of a position. Investors can sometimes take the attitude
that it will never move or it is in a trading range or, best of all, a better op-
portunity exists elsewhere. In this example, once the market finally breaks
out, several bullish patterns develop including a symmetrical triangle to sup-
port a conclusion that higher prices were still to come. To summarize, round-
ing bottoms or tops require time to develop, and traders have to demonstrate
patience during these basing periods as they can turn into reliable trend re-
versal patterns.
Opening Patterns
Many other chart patterns have been identified over the years, some com-
plicated and some simple, and it would be impossible to cover the nuances
of all these patterns. However, let me mention a couple of short-term pat-
terns based on the opening prices of the regular trading session (although
stock index futures trade almost around the clock, the open is considered
to be the period when trading begins at the New York Stock Exchange, 8:30
a.m. Central time). These two patterns meet two of my criteria: simplicity
and effectiveness.
Oops Signal The first is the oops trade associated with Larry Williams,
creator and developer of many trading concepts and author of a number of
trading books, who solidified his reputation as a trading legend by taking a
$10,000 account to more than $1 million in a highly publicized trading con-
test. The oops signal is based on trader psychology and gets its name from
a simple conclusion, “Oops, we made a mistake.”
When I interviewed Larry on my radio show, he explained that when a
broker would report to a client that the client was stopped out of a position,
the broker would say, “Oops, we lost.” Sometimes the broker would say,
“Let’s go the other way.” Then as the market turned around again, the client
would hear those famous words, “Oops, we lost again.”
The oops signal is a gap trading method that fades the direction of the
gap. When a market opens lower than the previous day’s low, a trader should
place a buy stop a few ticks above the previous day’s low, as Figure 5.17 il-
lustrates. When a market opens higher than the previous day’s high, a trader
should place a sell stop a few ticks below the previous day’s high, as shown
in Figure 5.18.
Markets sometimes gap open in one direction as traders react to an eco-
nomic report, a news event, or some other surprise factor. The outcome of
that gap is based on the opinions that are formed by the masses as traders
chase the market. Then as prices accelerate in one direction, human psy-
chology and rationale begin to kick in. Traders come to their senses and re-

P-05_4218 2/24/04 2:26 PM Page 89
Chart Patterns 89
Higher open
Once a market
gaps lower,
Once a market
place a buy stop
gaps higher,
above the
place a sell stop
previous day’s low.
below the
previous day’s high.
Lower open
FIGURE 5.17 Oops buy FIGURE 5.18 Oops sell
signal. signal.
alize that the market’s price may possibly have overreacted to the initial
news or event that created the gap in the first place.
The oops signal capitalizes on this fake-out situation. What makes the
signal work is that, as traders return to a rational state and reevaluate the
impact of the event on market values, prices are susceptible to a reversal
that can move values back in the opposite direction of the gap. These reac-
tions tend to work better in countertrend conditions—for example, taking
a sell oops signal in an uptrend.
The oops signal is like a key reversal described in Chapter 3. The mar-
ket gaps higher on bullish news but fails to maintain momentum and re-
verses lower. If traders get suckered into a long position based on the bullish
news and then see the market head lower and below the previous day’s
close, they are likely to conclude, “Oops,” scramble out of the long position,
and maybe even sell short, compounding the force to drive prices lower.
Using a stop order to enter a position in the opposite direction of the
gap reduces the risk of a true sentiment change in the market based on sup-
ply or demand conditions. If the event produced a true change in market
value, the opening gap might be a breakaway gap condition described ear-
lier in this chapter. A stop order would prevent you from getting in front of
this freight train that may be the start of a big move.
Figure 5.19, the mini-sized Dow futures contract, illustrates two classic
oops signals. The first one shows a higher open in an uptrend, so a coun-
tertrend sell stop was placed a few ticks below the prior day’s high. This
trade would have been a very nice position trade for approximately 400
points if the stops were managed effectively. The second oops signal oc-
curred in a short-term downtrend, so a buy stop was placed above the prior
day’s low for another countertrend trade. If you were to hold this position
more than one day without proper stop or risk management, a nice short-
term trade could have resulted in a loss.

P-05_4218 2/24/04 2:26 PM Page 90
90 CHART ANALYSIS: Volume, Open Interest, Price Patterns
Oops signal opens
higher then trades
Sell stop lower.
placed
below
high and Buy stop
close. placed
above
low and
close.
Oops signal opens
lower then trades
higher.
FIGURE 5.19 Profitable oops signals on mini-sized Dow futures. (Source:
FutureSource. Reprinted with permission.)
Day session open
gives selling opportunities
for most of the trading session
and stays below the open for a
majority of the day.
FIGURE 5.20 Opening range breakout pattern. (Source: FutureSource. Reprinted
with permission.)

P-05_4218 2/24/04 2:26 PM Page 91
Chart Patterns 91
Opening Range Breakout A second pattern based on the open is the
opening range breakout method described by Larry Pesavento, another
master technician and trader. The opening price will be near the high or low
of the day 67 percent of the time, according to Larry. Usually it is within 10
percent of the exact high or low. This is valuable information for a day
trader, who wants to be a buyer when prices are above the opening range
and a seller when prices are below the opening range.
Figure 5.20 reveals how this concept works on a 5-minute chart of the
mini-sized Dow futures contract for December 2, 2003. Note that the market
did trade for the majority of the day below the day’s opening range, which
was near the high of the day. Figure 5.21 is a daily chart of the same contract
so you can gauge the scope of the daily range and see prior historic values.
More important as it relates to this concept, look at how many times the
open is, in fact, near the actual high or low for the day.
Tuesday’s session
sell open theory
FIGURE 5.21 Opening price relative to the day’s high or low. (Source:
FutureSource. Reprinted with permission.)

P-05_4218 2/24/04 2:26 PM Page 92
92 CHART ANALYSIS: Volume, Open Interest, Price Patterns
Of course, as with anything related to charts and markets, nothing is
perfect about trading signals based on these opening patterns, which almost
require that you be a day trader to use them. All markets form patterns, and
many of these patterns repeat themselves consistently. But they may not ma-
terialize often, and even when you recognize them, there is no guarantee they
will develop like the textbook examples.

P-06_4218 2/24/04 2:29 PM Page 93
CHAPTER 6
Pivot Point
Analysis
A Powerful Weapon
Man’s mind, once stretched by a new idea, never
regains its original dimension.
—Oliver Wendell Holmes
P
ivot point analysis is a famous technique that is used as a price fore-
casting method by day traders and floor traders alike. I know it is very
popular among professionals—I am one of them who uses it in my
studies and market analysis.
Numerous advisory services, brokerage firms, and independent traders
use one form of it or another. Support/resistance, price range forecasting,
pin-pointing tops and bottoms,andtarget tradingare some of the other
terms that are used to refer to numbers derived by pivot points. For most
traders on the floors of the exchanges, pivot point numbers are considered
to be common knowledge from the old school of trading. The influx of
electronic off-floor day traders has really started to expand, and with that
expansion comes the need for traders to educate themselves about various
types of analysis.
Pivot point analysis is a leading indicator rather than a lagging indica-
tor like most of today’s popular technical indicators that are based on past
price action. It gives a trader the early advanced target levels that, in many
cases, turn out to be the actual high or low and sometimes even both for a
given trading session, as chart examples in Chapters 7, 8, and 9 will show.
Most novice individual investors and even brokers are not familiar with
pivot point analysis. Many inexperienced investors may have a hard time
incorporating this technique into their trading toolbox due to the time that
93

P-06_4218 2/24/04 2:29 PM Page 94
94 PIVOT POINT ANALYSIS: A Powerful Weapon
it takes to calculate the numbers. But make no mistake about it. Profes-
sionals look at this analysis and so should you.
MY START WITH PIVOT POINTS
Before going any further, let me explain how I became interested in pivot
point numbers. I picked up on the method back in 1985 as a colleague was
showing me how to day-trade the Swiss franc and the deutsche mark. It
worked fairly well in those days so I incorporated it into my analysis of the
market for which I really had a passion, bonds.
After using them for some time as a crutch, I was losing interest as a
day trader. Then I experimented with using this concept for a longer time
period, a week. Wow, what a discovery!
Then I came to the conclusion that I would try to use them on a monthly
basis because, after all, I was a follower of daily, weekly, and monthly charts.
In fact, the Chicago Board of Trade used to give out a monthly bond chart,
and a friend from the floor and I would get together for homework sessions.
We would do longer-term chart studies using moving averages. I figured, why
not look at the monthly price target, too? Wow again! I discovered that I
could look at a potential price range target in the future based on price ac-
tion in the past. The longer the time frames, the more power these points
seemed to have.
I also discovered the power and leverage of options as they were intro-
duced to the futures market with the first options market being, you guessed
it, bonds. I hit a grand-slam home run that lasted through most of 1986. You
see, I was bullish and the era of Reaganomics was happening! Interest rates
were declining from 14 percent and bond prices were exploding (bonds have
an inverted relationship between yield and price). That was a great time. I
made a lot of money, and I made other people a lot of money, too.
I somewhat retired after that and went to Miami and invested in a char-
ter boat business, purchasing an interest in a 42-foot Morgan 416 sailboat.
The problem is that I never chartered it because I was the one who always
took it out. So the business was never a business. Have you heard the old
expression that a boat owner’s two best days are the day he buys a boat and
the day he sells it? I have to disagree although it is true that boats are a money
pit and that whenever you buy anything that has “marine” in front of a nec-
essary item to make the vessel run, the price of that part moves exponen-
tially higher in cost.
The long and short of it is that I got rid of the boat, got married (I am still
happily married to the same woman), and went back into the futures busi-
ness. It took time for me to find the groove and to get back into the markets,
mainly because not only did the markets change but so did the U.S. and

P-06_4218 2/24/04 2:29 PM Page 95
Pivot Point Formula 95
global economies as well. The Persian Gulf war had taken place, the former
Soviet Union was coming apart, East and West Germany were reuniting and,
as you know, 24-hour trading was emerging. Markets were now open con-
stantly. New markets were being launched or evolving around the globe,
too—the CAC, the DAX, the MATIF, and many other foreign stock, futures,
and options exchanges.
I got back in business at First American Discount Corp. with Bill Mallers
Sr., a former chairman of the Chicago Board of Trade. He introduced me to
this secret technique he was developing for a trading program. As it turned
out, a portion of this top-secret method was, not surprisingly, pivot point
analysis. The kicker is that traders are still using this analysis today, and I
incorporate it on a daily, weekly, and monthly basis. That background is what
this chapter is all about. I want to demonstrate that the pivot point analysis
formula works on different markets and on different time frames.
PIVOT POINT FORMULA
Thepivot point numberis the sum of the high, low, and close divided by
three. This is the basis for the other pivot point analysis calculations. Here
is the common mathematical formula for pivot point analysis where P= pivot
point,C= close, H= high, and L= low:
H+L+C
P= —————
3
To get the first resistance level (R1), take the pivot point number times
two and then subtract the low:
R1= (P×2) – L
To find the second resistance area (R2), add the high to the pivot point
number and then subtract the low:
R2= (P+H) – L
For the first support level (S1), take the pivot point number times two
and then subtract the high:
S1= (P×2) – H
For the second support area (S2), subtract the high from the pivot point
number and then add the low:
S2= (P–H) + L

P-06_4218 2/24/04 2:29 PM Page 96
96 PIVOT POINT ANALYSIS: A Powerful Weapon
Some people have experimented with different variations to account
for the entire time period’s price action. For example, one variation adds the
open to the high, low, and close and then divides by four to derive the pivot
point value. I do not use this variation as it is an additional variable to input,
and the importance for the pivot point is in the weight the close has in re-
lationship to the high and low or the range.
One trader asked me how to change the numbers to take into consider-
ation those markets that trade 20 or 24 hours a day around the clock and
then experience tremendous gaps on the next day’s regular session open. An
approach that we discussed was to use the open of the next day instead of
the close from the prior day to calculate the pivot point. Then the support
and resistance formulas would apply for the balance of the calculations.
However, I have several issues with this method. For one, you have no
time to prepare for your trading day because you need to wait until the
open. More important, I apply the prior night’s session high or low that would
include the day session range, whichever figure is greater, and then use the
day session’s close. For example, the time period for e-mini S&Ps begins at
3:45 p.m. (Central time), and the close is the following day at 3:15 p.m. I
use the high and low during that entire session for the day’s range. I apply
the same concept to other markets, including the mini-sized Dow, bonds,
currencies, and metals.
BEHIND THE ANALYSIS
Whatever formula you use to get the pivot point number that is the basis of
this analysis, you can see that it involves several steps and is somewhat de-
tailed. Here is my interpretation for the rationale behind the calculations.
Consider the pivot point as the average of the previous session’s trading
range combined with the closing price. The numbers of support and resis-
tance that are calculated indicate the potential ranges for the next time
frame, based on the past weight of the market’s strength or weakness de-
rived from calculating the high, low, and distance from the close of those
points. Pivot point analysis is also used to identify breakout points from
the support and resistance numbers.
The previous session’s trading range could be based on an hour, a day,
a week, or a month. Most trading software includes these numbers on a daily
basis so that you do not have the tedious chore of doing it the old-fashion
way—by hand using a calculator. (The really old-fashion way doesn’t use
even a calculator). Don’t make your job harder; try the easy way using a
computer program like the one I developed so that I can calculate the num-
bers on a daily, weekly, and monthly time period relatively quickly and for
most markets (available to clients by fax or e-mail, or by viewing on line).

P-06_4218 2/24/04 2:29 PM Page 97
Verify, Verify, Verify 97
I do the daily numbers at the end of the day to help me identify the next
day’s potential range or support and resistance points. It gives me a head
start on my analysis so I am prepared for the next day’s work. It helps me
plan my trades. Similarly, the weekly numbers are done at the end of every
week, and the same goes for the monthly numbers.
Because most technical analysis is derived from mathematical calcula-
tions, the common denominators that are used are the high, low, close, and
open. These figures are used for plotting most common charts, for example.
More notable techniques such as moving averages, relative strength index,
stochastics, and Fibonacci numbers are all calculated using mathematics
based on those price points of interest. These prices are also what the news-
papers publish.
As technical analysts, we are trying to use past price behavior to help
us get an indication of future price direction. This approach sounds absurd
because no one can predict the future, right? Well, I am not trying to predict
the future. I just want an idea of where prices can go in a given time period,
based on where they have been. After all, isn’t that similar to the concept of
drawing trend lines?
VERIFY, VERIFY, VERIFY
We have all heard the slogan about how to be successful investing in real es-
tate: LOCATION, LOCATION, LOCATION. (Is that another symbolic reference that
involves the Fibonacci number three?) In the trading business a similar im-
portant rule is what I call the rule of multiple verification: VERIFY, VERIFY,
VERIFY. More than likely, I picked up this belief by reading a book back in
1981 or 1982 by Arthur Sklarew, Techniques of a Professional Commodity
Chart Analyst. In writing about the rule of multiple techniques (page 3), he
states:
Technicians know very well that price chart analysis is not an exact
science. No single chart technique yet discovered is infallible. Despite
this lack of perfection, price chart analysis can very often give reli-
able forecasts of trend direction...Confirmation is therefore an
essential component of every valid chart signal. In addition to com-
paring price charts of different contract months and time scales, it
has been my experience that the accuracy of any technical price fore-
cast can be improved greatly by the application of a principle that I
call the “Rule of Multiple Techniques.”
The Rule of Multiple Techniques requires that the chart technician
not rely solely on one single technical signal or indicator but look
forconfirmation from other technical indicators. The more technical

P-06_4218 2/24/04 2:29 PM Page 98
98 PIVOT POINT ANALYSIS: A Powerful Weapon
indicators that confirm each other, the better the chance of an accu-
rate forecast. The logic behind this rule is that, if individual time-
proven techniques tend to be right most of the time, a combination of
several such techniques that confirm each other will tend to be right
even more frequently.
I do not believe Sklarew talked about pivot point analysis as a means of
technical analysis nor was he aware at the time he wrote that book of the
art of candle charting. I believe that had he been, those ideas more than
likely would have been in his book.
Verify, verify, verify. (Remember that slogan because it has to do with
the development of my method of analysis described later.) What it really
means to me is this: Before deciding to invest or make a trade, if I under-
stand the underlying fundamentals, I would want to look at a chart to con-
firm the trend, and then I would look at varying technical indicators to help
confirm my beliefs. By incorporating different techniques such as pivot
point analysis, I have figures that help speed up my analytical process. With
these numbers I can draw lines on my charts indicating support and resis-
tance levels to see if they help clear the visual picture.
Let’s do the math calculation on the monthly pivot point support num-
ber for sugar that was mentioned in the previous chapter. If you recall, I
said the target support number was 6.09. The range for the previous month
(September) for the March 2002 sugar futures contract was a high of 7.80
cents a pound and a low of 6.40 cents with the close at 6.63 cents. Working
the formula, you have 20.83 as the total of your prices divided by 3 for a
pivot point number of 6.943. Multiply the pivot point number by 2 (13.886)
and subtract the high, and you should show 6.09 (rounded off) as the Sup-
port 1 number for the month of October. The sugar chart shown as Figure
6.1 shows the actual low was 6.11 cents, which occurred eight business days
into the month of October—two ticks from the projected pivot point sup-
port number! In addition, that low of 6.11 was reached in two days, forming
a double bottom.
I was already armed with the knowledge from the chart that a three-gap
formation had formed, signaling the downmove was nearly over, especially
after the third gap, the exhaustion gap, was identified. Knowledge of the
monthly pivot number combined with gap analysis provided a strong, highly
probable buy signal. The results speak for themselves.
The pivot point analysis method used to target the exact low is not an
exact science, and you have to allow for a margin of error in using these
numbers. If anything, it can give you confidence to enter a position and im-
plement a sound trading plan. At the very least, you should not have gotten
caught up in selling short at that level. If you had identified a buying oppor-

P-06_4218 2/24/04 2:29 PM Page 99
Verify, Verify, Verify 99
High 7.80
Breakaway gap
Close 6.63
Midpoint gap
Low 6.40
Monthly S1=6.09
Exhaustion gap
Actual low was 6.11.
FIGURE 6.1 Sugar on target. (Source: FutureSource. Reprinted with permission.)
tunity based on the signals on the sugar chart, the biggest dilemma would
have been to decide where to get out and how long to hold the position.
Study the price action in February on the live cattle futures chart pro-
vided as Figure 6.2. Cattle had approximately a 300-point range during Feb-
ruary. So what method would have helped give you a clue to sell near 76.00?
Let’s apply the pivot point formula on the monthly data, using February’s
high (76.52), low (73.62), and close (74.20). Once you work the calculations,
you will see that the price projections were 77.68 for Resistance 2 and 75.94
for Resistance 1. The actual high was 76.05 made on the ninth trading day
of the month! Combine the monthly target resistance figures with candle
charting techniques, which identified a potential variation of a dark cloud
cover pattern on the seventh trading day of the month, and you are armed
with a powerful combination. You could have developed a trading plan to
sell short at R1 75.90 (rounded down) and used appropriate stops. If you
had done the monthly numbers and said to yourself, “I’ll take a look at that
market if it gets near my price projections,” you may have acted on a short
position and profited nicely.

P-06_4218 2/24/04 2:29 PM Page 100
100 PIVOT POINT ANALYSIS: A Powerful Weapon
Variation of dark cloud
cover and monthly pivot.
Resistance 75.94.
The actual high was 76.05.
FIGURE 6.2 Getting short in cattle. (Source: FutureSource. Reprinted with
permission.)
Let’s look at it another way. If you just had the pivot point numbers
alone and thought the market was going higher, checking the figures first
might have saved you from buying the high. You may not have necessarily
gone short, but I believe you would not have gone long either. You should be
starting to see the value in using pivot point numbers.
As for the support numbers, the calculations put S1 at 73.04 and S2 at
71.88. Granted, the market moved below 70.00, but the S2 number would
have given you a great target to shoot for if you wanted to cover a short po-
sition or wanted to look at the market for other clues to initiate a position.
As you can tell, not many other signals were available, other than the record
eight to ten candle pattern, to warn that the trend was concluding.
If professional traders—mainly floor traders—are looking at these
numbers, why wouldn’t you want to look at them as well? Anything that can
help you make better decisions for determining a game plan that integrates
a better level of risk and a potential profit objective can’t be bad. Remember,
you won’t know where you are going if you don’t know where you have been.

P-06_4218 2/24/04 2:29 PM Page 101
Finding Equilibrium 101
That is what this method helps you to do—navigate future price moves based
on the previous time frame’s data.
FINDING EQUILIBRIUM
Keep in mind the reasoning behind the numbers. At any given time, there is
an equilibrium point around which trading activity occurs. For day traders
in active markets such as stock index futures or financial instruments, this
equilibrium point serves as the pivot or focal point for floor traders, the pro-
fessional locals who trade positions around that point during the day. When
prices move away from the pivot number up or down, there are zones of
support and resistance that can be derived from the prior trading period’s
range. This range around the focal point then sets an established value in
the market. Violation of these price bands or trade zones leads to changes
in valuation and the potential entry of new players into the market.
Trading for the day will usually remain between the first support and
resistance levels as these professional floor traders make their markets. If
either of these first levels are penetrated, off-floor traders and other traders
may be attracted into the market. This increased activity can give the mar-
ket the momentum it needs to break out into a new range or to move to the
next target zone.
These breakout points usually reverse their roles and serve as test
points once a breakout occurs. For example, the prior resistance becomes
the new support or the prior support now becomes the new resistance. The
range of trading has expanded, and if a second support or resistance level is
broken, then the potential for further momentum develops as longer-term
traders and new traders may be attracted.
The price parameters used by floor traders and other industry analysts
can be calculated with the preceding formulas. Knowledge of these levels
can help you set your own targets or at least give you insight as to what the
pros on the floor are using. This knowledge is especially useful when there
is hardly any outside influence on the market from fundamental changes
such as news events, economic data, or reports.
As long as no significant news events have taken place between the
close and the next trading session’s open, locals tend to move the market
and trade between themselves and the “paper” or orders from brokerage
firm customers. These price swings generally will only move between the
pivot point and the first band of support and resistance.
If prices move to the first or even second resistance calculation and if
you have confirmation from an additional technical indicator such as MACD
or stochastics, the confirmation creates a higher confidence level to act on a
sell signal. Combine those signals with a familiar candle chart pattern such as

P-06_4218 2/24/04 2:29 PM Page 102
102 PIVOT POINT ANALYSIS: A Powerful Weapon
a dark cloud cover or a bearish engulfing pattern or bearish harami cross and
you have a powerful sell signal. Because pivot points are developing a large
following among off-floor traders as well as locals, they should be in your ar-
senal of technical trading weapons.
The difference between successful traders and not-so-successful traders
is what they do with the price data they all have, how fast they process the
data, and then how they apply or execute that knowledge. Pivot points can
give you the edge as fast as you calculate the data. A computer can facilitate
your analysis, but the best trading system I know is still the individual
trader who has a proper education and a proper method for observing, in-
terpreting, and evaluating a particular trade setup. A great trading system is
not the computer or software program, but the individual who can make cal-
culated decisions based on the data, an analytical process that pivot point
analysis can speed up.
PIVOT POINTS IN ACTION
The easiest way to help show how pivot point analysis works is with a few
examples. First is a 60-minute candle chart showing S&P 500 index futures
for August 20–21, 2002, shown as Figure 6.3. Using the pivot point formula,
you can calculate the target numbers for August 21 from the trading session
data on August 20. The candles inside the box show the trading range and
price swings from that day when the high was 949.5, the low was 931.50, and
the close was 939.8. Calculating the numbers gives you a pivot point of 940,
producing targets of 958 for R2, 949 for R1, 922 for S2, and 931 for S1.
If you did your homework or downloaded the analysis from the Na-
tional Futures research advisory web site after the close on August 20, then
you would know what I call the key target numbers: R1 of 949 and S1 of 931.
Examining the chart, a nice trade sell setup evolved after the secondary fail-
ure of 949. Even if you didn’t sell short, I believe you would not have gone
long at that level either. The better setup, however, came as a buy signal
from the positive reactionary bounce off the 931 key support (S1) number as
a bullish harami formed. A nice day-trade could have been made with a stop
placed under the established low of 931.
Again, if you did not want to go long, then the S1 support level would
absolutely have saved you from getting caught up in a bear trap by selling
what turned out to be the exact low of the day. The day’s price action swung
between the initial high at 949.7 and the fall to 931 before rallying back up
through 949 to the 952 area, dropping back to the 937 level and then blasting
off to new highs by the close. Figure 6.3 helps to illustrate the theory that
markets will establish a range and trade within that range in any given pe-
riod of time and shows the power of the pivot point method.

P-06_4218 2/24/04 2:29 PM Page 103
P3T Signals 103
Top dashed line represents
pivot point calculation for
R-1, which was 949
Candles inside
box shows
high-low-close
from 8/20/02, Bullish harami
which was
949.5-931.5-939.8.
Bottom dashed line
represents pivot point
calculation of S-1, 931.
60-minute chart
FIGURE 6.3 S&P pivoting off points. (Source: FutureSource. Reprinted with
permission.)
One other coincidence that should be pointed out is that on August 20,
the high was 949.5 and the low was 931.5, almost the same as the calculations
for R1 and S1 and the actual highs and lows for the next day, showing the
tendency for prices to remain in a range. Also, note that the market traded
at the pivot point resistance level several times. I’ve noticed markets bounce
off support or resistance target levels two, three, and even four times. As a
general rule, I usually will only take a trade based off the first test of the S1
or R1 pivot number. The reason, as an old saying goes, is that if you go to
the well one too many times, then the well will run dry on you. By the time
a trader gets used to or identifies a particular pattern, the pattern can change,
resulting in a loss.
P3T SIGNALS
Now let me introduce you to what I call the trading method for P3T signals—
Person’s Pivot Point Trade signal. P3T combines techniques of pivot point

P-06_4218 2/24/04 2:29 PM Page 104
104 PIVOT POINT ANALYSIS: A Powerful Weapon
analysis, candle charting, and technical indicators such as stochastics to
help confirm trade setups or turning points to capture and profit from a
price move.
Following are some examples of different markets and different time
frames to help illustrate the powerful signals that develop using this
combination.
On a daily chart for silver (Figure 6.4), I identified that the market had
formed a shooting star followed by a potential doji after about a seven-week
runup. This pattern indicated that the market was due for a correction. That
formation indicated a tug-of-war between the bulls and the bears and that a
top had formed, based on those combined candles.
I had a second-opinion indicator using pivot point analysis on a monthly
time frame to determine the potential price range or support and resistance
point for the next month. Most traders who are familiar with pivot point
analysis associate it with day-trading and do calculations only on a daily
basis, but this example shows you why daily, weekly, and monthly calcula-
tions can be extremely successful and offer a more powerful method of an-
alyzing price objectives.
Shooting star
FIGURE 6.4 Setup in silver. (Source: FutureSource. Reprinted with permission.)

P-06_4218 2/24/04 2:29 PM Page 105
P3T Signals 105
The high for March silver in December was $4.635, the low was $4.125,
and the close was $4.58. The pivot point calculations made $4.7737 (rounded
off to $4.775) the first resistance and $4.2637 the first support. The exact high
was $4.775!
Now look at the after picture shown in Figure 6.5, which shows a pow-
erful selling wave that took command of the price in silver following the
bearish candle pattern. Not only did the pivot point calculation numbers
alert me to the potential high almost two weeks in advance, but the candle
pattern also confirmed it.
The January slide took prices close to the $4.2637 pivot point calcula-
tion for the S1 support target. The actual low in January was $4.205—not
exact but darn close. Combining pivot point analysis with candle charting
techniques and then including a Western market indicator such as the sto-
chastic oscillator may give you better trading signals and verification so you
can have more confidence in your own trading abilities.
Figure 6.6, the weekly chart for U.S. Dollar Index futures, with expo-
nential moving averages for three time periods added, provides another
great before-after example, illustrating that candle chart patterns and pivot
Shooting star and monthly R1 was 477.
Actual low 420.5;
monthly S1 was 426.
Bullish convergence
FIGURE 6.5 Afterglow in silver. (Source: FutureSource. Reprinted with permission.)

P-06_4218 2/24/04 2:29 PM Page 106
106 PIVOT POINT ANALYSIS: A Powerful Weapon
Shooting star Bearish harami cross
Weekly R1 is 120.98;
actual high, 120.88.
FIGURE 6.6 P3T trade in U.S. dollar. (Source: FutureSource. Reprinted with
permission.)
point analysis work together with other indicators not only on daily charts
but for other time periods as well. Look at the shooting star formation that
exposed the turning point for the market during the first week in July. The
next candle was a hanging man, which certainly warned that the trend was
changing. The result was a complete market reversal that resulted in a 950-
point decline within 21⁄ 2months.
After another rally that recovered most of the gains following the mid-
September low, look at the bearish harami that formed at the end of January.
The characteristics were that the market had had a long advance (nearly four
months), and a long white candle had formed (meaning the market closed
above the open and there were little or no shadows). The next candle was a
doji where the market had a wide range but closed at or quite close to the
open. Another observation is that the market was forming a major double top
from the prior high.
A plan of attack would be to sell short and place the initial stop as a stop
close only order above the January high. The reason I would have selected

P-06_4218 2/24/04 2:29 PM Page 107
P3T Signals 107
that as my risk target was, if the market retests the high, I would not want to
be stopped out and then have to watch the market price fail off the high. I
would want to be out only if prices made a new all-time high close above that
level, which would signal the market’s acceptance of a new higher price
plateau and would probably spark an advance to newer highs.
But it gets better. The week of the long white candle (January 25, 2002)
has a high of 120.30, a low of 118.02, and a close of 120.18. By using the pivot
point calculations, the key target resistance (R1) is 120.98. Combining that
target number with the bearish harami cross gave a powerful one-two punch
of confidence to sell short. As you can see, the high that next week (Febru-
ary 1, 2002) was 120.88 as the doji candle formed.
Yes, I know it was not exactly on the number, but again it was close
enough. With confirmation from the candle pattern and the prior high back
in July 2001, this classified as a picture-perfect P3T sell signal!
Take a look in Figure 6.7 at what happened to the U.S. Dollar Index
after the bearish signals at the double top. In addition to those signals, the
Double top confirmed
with a bearish harami
cross and weekly R1
pivot point
Exponential moving
averages (3, 9, 18 periods)
cross over.
FIGURE 6.7 U.S. dollar follows the script. (Source: FutureSource. Reprinted with
permission.)

P-06_4218 2/24/04 2:29 PM Page 108
108 PIVOT POINT ANALYSIS: A Powerful Weapon
three exponential moving averages (4-, 9-, and 18-week periods) made a
dead crossover in April (when the short-term moving averages cross below
the longer-term moving averages, a sell signal is indicated). The dollar’s
value continued the trend lower for many months.
Now let’s confirm the amazing discovery that pivot point analysis might
combine with candle chart patterns to offer traders a powerful and consis-
tent method for verifying trade signals. Figure 6.8, the 60-minute chart of
crude oil futures, was printed out on August 1, 2002. Based on price action
from the previous week (July 26, 2002, high of $27.75, low of $25.95, and
close of $26.54), the R1 price target for the week was $27.54.
By doing your homework on Friday or by downloading the numbers
from the National Futures advisory service web site, you would have been
armed with the potential price range for that week. It would have alerted
you to watch the price action if crude oil got to $27.54. When it did, the en-
suing bearish engulfing pattern combined with the bearish divergence on the
stochastics confirmed and generated another textbook P3T sell signal. The
actual high was $27.69, a difference of only 15 cents from the target number.
Weekly pivot point R1 27.54 Bearish engulfing
Bearish
divergence
FIGURE 6.8 Alert in crude oil. (Source: FutureSource. Reprinted with permission.)

P-06_4218 2/24/04 2:29 PM Page 109
P3T Signals 109
This move might not seem to be significant or dramatic at first glance,
but if you look closely at this chart, you will notice that this was a decline
of nearly $1.25 per barrel in less than 24 hours. That figure equates to $1,250
on a single futures contract.
This next example is from a specific trade recommendation made in the
Weekly Bottom Line Newsletter for the week ending May 10, 2002. In that
recommendation, I explained fully how to examine and develop an exact
P3T trade signal for the July cotton futures contract. Looking at the data
from the prior week ending May 3, 2002, the high was 35.70 cents, the low
was 32.85 cents, and the close was 33.52 cents. Using the pivot point calcu-
lations, the projected weekly target low for S1 was 32.35 cents, and the cal-
culation for the R1 target high was 35.20 cents.
Because I always do the monthly analysis, let me include that also. Dur-
ing the month of April the high was 40.71 cents, the low was 34.30, and the
month ended at 34.71. Doing the pivot point calculations again to project
the monthly targets for May, the S1 key support figure was 32.61 cents, and
the monthly target for R1 resistance was 39.02 cents. Using figures from
both the previous week and the previous month, you now have the poten-
tial projected price ranges for those time periods.
I cannot stress enough why using the pivot point calculations to project
two different time frames is important. If you think about it, in any given
month there normally are four full weeks and 22 business days. Every week
and every month will have an established price range. The high for the month
will usually be made on one day, and it also will be the high for that week.
The low for the month will usually be made on one day, and it also will be the
low for that week. At the end of the month prices will usually settle some-
where in between.
If you have a target level to alert you to focus on that market if and when
prices trade near that level, it gives you an edge in the market, allowing you
to act rather than react to the market. More specifically, if both the weekly
and monthly numbers are close to each other, then more close examination
to find an opportunity to place a trade and to develop a game plan in either
futures or options is warranted.
Figure 6.9 is the cotton chart and following are my comments and the
exact trade recommendation as they appeared in the Weekly Bottom Line
Newsletterfor the week ending May 10, 2002:
The monthly support is 32.61 and Friday’s low was 32.85, which is
close enough for me, especially after a continuous price decline from
being at nearly 41.00 cents four weeks ago. Bullish divergence and a
hammer formation on the candlestick improve the odds that a short-
term bottom is in place and a bounce is due. Look to buy near 33.25
to 32.65 and use 32.20 stop close only.

P-06_4218 2/24/04 2:29 PM Page 110
110 PIVOT POINT ANALYSIS: A Powerful Weapon
Monthly pivot point S1 32.61
Hammer
Stochastics
bullish
convergence
FIGURE 6.9 Hammering in a bottom in cotton. (Source: FutureSource. Reprinted
with permission.)
By having both the monthly and the weekly pivot point calculations in
addition to a bullish stochastic divergence, a hammer formation on the can-
dle chart, and the fact that the market had plunged nearly 800 points in about
17 days, I was willing to map out a specific trade for the following week. If
you do your calculations at the end of trading on Friday, collecting the data
for all the markets you have an interest in tracking, then you have Saturday
and Sunday to develop your trading plans. That analysis is what I provide in
my advisory service.
Now let’s look at Figure 6.10 for the results. During the next trading ses-
sion on Monday, May 6, the low was 33.05 cents. In the next trading session
on Tuesday, the low was also 33.05 cents. If you missed the trade recom-
mendation even after those two days, you still had an opportunity to enter the
position near 33.25 cents on Wednesday, May 8. Let’s say you established a
game plan and placed an order to buy. With your target risk factor set, the
hardest part of this trade would be to decide where to take a profit.
The monthly projected R1 resistance targeted the high at 39.02. The ac-
tual high was 39.65 on the last day of the month. The market came within 24

P-06_4218 2/24/04 2:29 PM Page 111
P3T Signals 111
Prior month’s high 40.71, low 34.30, close 34.97
used to calculate monthly R1 of 39.02 and S1 of 32.61.
Monthly target R1 was 39.02.
Notice the high here is 39.65.
Weekly low 33.05 both Monday
and Tuesday, giving an
opportunity to enter market.
FIGURE 6.10 Prices take off! (Source: FutureSource. Reprinted with permission.)
points of the targeted monthly S1 low number and 63 points of the monthly
R1 high target—really not a bad margin of error, wouldn’t you agree?
These are facts—hard-core black and white indisputable facts—of how
these numbers work. Again, not all the numbers work this well, but it is im-
pressive to even an analyst such as myself to see how they still work for dif-
ferent time frames and on different investment vehicles and products as in
this cotton example.
The initial performance bond requirement for cotton futures at the time
was $1,000. If you had bought at the high end of the recommendation, which
was 33.25 cents, and rode it to only, say, 38.50 cents or just shy of the 39.02
monthly target number, you would have captured a 550-point move in fewer
than 20 trading days or $2,750 per contract!
Keep in mind the stop or risk factor that was targeted was about $500.
This particular loss factor was on a stop close only basis, which is different
than a regular stop. To get stopped out, the market would need to close
below 32.20 cents. However, you should know there are significant increases
in risk and loss amounts associated with stop close only orders. For instance,

P-06_4218 2/24/04 2:29 PM Page 112
112 PIVOT POINT ANALYSIS: A Powerful Weapon
the market could trade limit down and not fill you at all, or it could close
significantly below 32.20 and give you a greater amount of loss than you
wanted.
The bottom line is that even ordinary stops do not guarantee a specific
loss amount. Stop close only orders are used so that I know the market
proved me wrong by trading lower and staying at that low price on the close.
A regular stop could be triggered on an intraday move, and then the market
could snap right back up and take me out of the trade. In essence, I could be
right in my analysis and still lose money using regular stops. This method of
order entry is discussed in further detail in Chapter 10.
Other trading tactics such as liquidating half of your positions at a target
price and then moving stops up as the market moves in your favor (known
astrailing stops) could have been employed. Or maybe you would have rid-
den the market for the entire 1,400-point move, which would have equaled
about $7,000.
Taking the devil’s advocate point of view, you may be wondering why,
if this method is so good, would anyone in their right mind want to share
this information with others? Simple. You can use many methods to trade.
Most methods have a solid foundation of followers and credibility. So does
this method. I believe the act of teaching and sharing ideas only helps me to
become a better trader by instilling a higher degree of confidence and rein-
forcing sound trading methods. The key for success for any method to work
is not only believing in it but also acting on that information and executing
or following through with the necessary action.
If you are a novice or inexperienced in futures trading, or even if you
are an experienced trader looking to expand your knowledge in technical
analysis, it might pay you to learn this trading method and incorporate it
into your trading style so you can survive this business and, more important,
profit from it.

P-07_4218 2/24/04 2:37 PM Page 113
CHAPTER 7
Day-Trading,
Swing Trading
Acting on Analysis
Anytime there is change, there is opportunity.
So it is paramount that an organization get
energized rather than paralyzed.
—Jack Welch, CEO, General Electric
I
love Jack Welch’s statement! It is so true and applies so well to the trad-
ing industry. A trader needs to adapt and change with the ebb and flow
of the markets. Sitting on a position, cutting out of a trade early, or not
taking action on a well-thought-out trading plan all lead to emotional paral-
ysis. Understanding the potential opportunities and then having the confi-
dence to act on a belief in them will no doubt result in positive energy and,
thus, build your trading skills.
With that admonishment in mind, I want to introduce you to another
valuable lesson using the pivot point method of price forecasting. By taking
the daily, weekly, or monthly numbers, you can target a price level and then
wait for confirmation from a recognized chart pattern. This combination of
techniques can help you take advantage of the price swings from market re-
actions off those numbers. By having the calculations based on different
time frames, you can use them whether you are day-trading or swing trading.
When the market trades near these pivot numbers, the reaction can be
a significant bounce from a support number or the market can simply stall
before blowing through the support number and then continuing the trend
lower. In my experience there is usually a reaction from the numbers; the
longer term the calculation, the bigger the reaction. The only thing you really
need to do as a trader is to get in the market, capture a significant price
move, and then get out with a profit.
113

P-07_4218 2/24/04 2:37 PM Page 114
114 DAY-TRADING, SWING TRADING: Acting on Analysis
Figure 7.1 is a 60-minute chart from July 16 to July 30, 2002. Pivot point
analysis, based on the weekly numbers in one of the biggest down months
in S&P 500 index history, targeted the support level for the low within 9
points. The week ending July 19, 2002, had a high of 929.5, a low of 840, and
a close at 844. The fundamental backdrop was extremely pessimistic with
all the corporate accounting scandals, doubts that the economy could sus-
tain growth, Middle East tensions flaring, and earnings coming in weaker
than expected. Not many indicators were calling for a low or a turnaround
in the equity markets.
However, there were a few positive indicators, and pivot point analysis
targeted 781.67 for the S2 low number for the week ending July 26, 2002.
The hourly candle chart not only showed a version of a morning star for-
mation but the actual low on the morning of July 24, 2002, was 771.30. The
market stayed at that level for less than two hours. So why is this impor-
tant? If you only had access to the daily or monthly numbers, then you
missed out on the weekly projection for what turned out to be an important
and powerful turnaround in stock index futures history.
Neckline
Right shoulder
Left shoulder
Weekly pivot point 781
Head Morning star formation
FIGURE 7.1 Performing in volatility. (Source: FutureSource. Reprinted with permission.)

P-07_4218 2/24/04 2:37 PM Page 115
Day-Trading, Swing Trading: Acting on Analysis 115
As you look carefully at Figure 7.1, it also may reveal what I call a
“trade signal rich environment.” Notice the inverted head-and-shoulders
formation that developed? This formation may have helped to add convic-
tion that a bottom was in place and that higher prices were coming.
Using the data from other markets also may help to give you more con-
fidence in the strength or credibility than the target numbers for the S&P
alone may have. For the week ending July 19, 2002, the Dow futures had a
high of 8720, a low of 7945, and a close at 7998. Working out the pivot point
calculations, the S2 number was 7446. The June Dow futures were projected
to have support about 552 points lower on the week because they had closed
at 7998 on Friday, July 19 (chart not shown). Another thing to keep in mind
is that the Dow had closed at 9392 on July 5, so that would mean a decline
of 1,946 Dow points in 10 to 15 trading days to test the S2 target area of sup-
port. The actual low: 7450!
Now I know most investors were panicking, and I am sure some went
short, thinking the stock market was going to zero. Being armed with this
information may not have prompted you to go long, but I am sure that, if you
had the numbers in front of you and were trading, you would not have sold
short at the low.
Figure 7.2, the hourly chart for Nasdaq 100 index futures, is not as exact
as the previous example, but it helps to illustrate the point of alerting you
to a selling opportunity or at least not getting trapped into buying highs. Re-
member, most successful traders do not get into the habit of buying highs.
Taking the range for the previous week (August 26, 2002), the high was 985,
the low was 873, and the close was 912.5. The weekly price target for the R1
number was 974, using the pivot point formula.
On the first test of the 974 R1 number, the actual high was 973 so, in
essence, the RI target did stop the market’s advance initially. The next for-
mation was a variation of a dark cloud cover. On the third try to advance
beyond the 974 R1 resistance number, a variation of an evening star forma-
tion developed. It was not a textbook pattern—the star looked more like a
spinning top formation than a shooting star—but it did warn of an impend-
ing top.
It was with that second formation that stochastics generated a bearish
divergence. At this point you might consider a short position. A sell signal
was confirmed by the continuation of the bearish divergence from the sto-
chastic oscillator, and the market was unable to maintain momentum above
the 974 R1 level for any substantial period of time.
The next example (Figure 7.3) again comes from July 2002, one of the
most volatile time periods ever for the stock market. To have a reliable tool
to help discover a target price or forecast a high for the range in this period
was invaluable.

P-07_4218 2/24/04 2:37 PM Page 116
116 DAY-TRADING, SWING TRADING: Acting on Analysis
Variation of a
dark cloud cover Evening star formation
Weekly pivot point
resistance 974
Evening star
formation
A B C
Stochastic cross
over sell signals
(A, B, C)
FIGURE 7.2 Nasdaq signals. (Source: FutureSource. Reprinted with permission.)
Taking the numbers from the prior week ending on July 26, 2002, the
high was 856, the low was 771.30, and the close was 853.70. Those numbers
produced the projected price range for the next weekly trading session
(week ending August 2, 2002)—882.7 for the R1 first target resistance num-
ber and 911.70 for the R2 second target resistance. A bearish harami cross
formed on Monday, thus generating a critical early alert that the market’s
price advance was slowing or coming to an end.
That pattern, combined with the weekly pivot point calculations, would
have prevented you from buying at that level. Why would anyone even be
thinking about buying there? Well, the market was bouncing off a major five-
year low, it was significantly oversold, and many investors were convinced
that the lows were in. After all, S&P 500 futures had experienced their sin-
gle biggest monthly price decline in July, dating back to the inception of the
futures contract. The actual high was 916.
Let’s examine one more chart of the S&P 500 index, using the data from
the week ending May 3, 2002 (Figure 7.4). The high was 1091.8, the low was
1063.5, and the week closed at 1073. Applying the pivot point formula to

P-07_4218 2/24/04 2:37 PM Page 117
Day-Trading, Swing Trading: Acting on Analysis 117
Versions of a Resistance line
dark cloud cover
Weekly pivot point Bearish
resistance #2 harami
is 911.70. cross
By 8/6/02, three days
after this chart was
printed, S&P futures
traded down to 829!
FIGURE 7.3 Preventing a buy in S&P. (Source: FutureSource. Reprinted with
permission.)
calculate the target numbers for the next week, the weekly target number
for S2 was 1047.8. The weekly target number for R1 was 1088.7. Keep these
two key prices in mind.
I also calculate the monthly price target range numbers for the top 24
markets to help give me a longer-term outlook for major support and resis-
tance levels on those markets. Using the range numbers from April for S&P
futures, the high was 1149.9, the low was 1063, and the month closed at
1077.2. After working the pivot point formula, the analysis projected the S1
monthly target low number at 1043.83. The R1 monthly target high number
was calculated at 1130.23.
Both weekly and monthly time frames had calculations that were close
to each other, reinforcing the significance of that area and requiring an
alert trader to focus special attention on that price level as a potential turn-
ing point or buying opportunity.
The weekly and monthly pivot point numbers, combined with the bull-
ish harami cross, provided the basis for a specific trade recommendation to
go long.

P-07_4218 2/24/04 2:37 PM Page 118
118 DAY-TRADING, SWING TRADING: Acting on Analysis
Weekly
bullish
harami
cross
A Bullish convergence
stochastic indicator
B C D
Oversold level
FIGURE 7.4 Forecasting an S&P reversal. (Source: FutureSource. Reprinted with
permission.)
Here is my specific recommendation from the Bottom Line Financial
and Futures Newsletter:
Technically, the weekly and monthly support numbers are near con-
verging plus the weekly stochastics indicator is showing the market
is in an oversold condition and it is at a level almost hooking into a
crossover buy signal. The chart pattern could potentially turn into a
major double bottom formation from the post-September 11 low. I will
look to buy near 1048; use 1033 as your stop. Option traders can look
to price out buying the June 1100 calls if the market trades near that
level.
There is a funny human-interest story behind that specific week as
well. On Saturday, May 4, I finished the newsletter and posted it on the web
site earlier than normal due to preparations for the Las Vegas Money Show.
I was a keynote speaker, scheduled to go on stage on Tuesday, May 7, at

P-07_4218 2/24/04 2:37 PM Page 119
Day-Trading, Swing Trading: Acting on Analysis 119
around 5 p.m. Pacific time, specifically talking about swing trading using
candle charting in conjunction with pivot point analysis.
This was a major investment event. All the big-name analysts and in-
vestment firms were in attendance. I had already passed out about 300 copies
of the newsletter on the first day of the event, Monday, May 6. This simple
trading method and my reputation were on the line.
By the close on Monday the S&P 500 was down big! Remember, on Fri-
day it had closed at 1073. On Tuesday morning the talk of the show was how
the equity market was in a nosedive going to zero. I had already passed out
my research newsletter that advised buying the S&P 500 if it got down to
1048. You don’t want to present a seminar in front of a large crowd teaching
the validity of a trading method and be wrong.
John Murphy, the well-known technical analyst and author, came by
thebooth around 1 p.m., about the time the regular S&P 500 trading session
was closing in Chicago. The market was at the 1047 level. I go on stage in
less than four hours, and it’s not looking so good for me. I asked John what
he thought. I was hoping for a sign of encouragement from one of the in-
dustry’s top-ranked technicians who wrote the bible on technical analysis.
His opinion? “The market is going considerably lower!”
Whoa! But the show must go on and so I did. Thanks to positive com-
ments after the closing bell from technology giant Cisco, the S&P 500 recov-
ered about 10 points before I went on stage. By the close of business on
Wednesday, May 8, S&P 500 futures had recorded one of the biggest one-day
rallies of the year, up nearly 40 points in a day.
I want to acknowledge that, over the long term, John Murphy was right.
But for a swing trader doing a weekly newsletter, I sure caught a lot of in-
vestors’ attention. The best part of it all is that people benefited from my
class.
Study Figure 7.4 a little more. Notice the dashed line at the bottom, indi-
cating the stochastics oversold value range. The double arrow marked “A”
back in March indicates a nice bullish divergence signal. Points B, C, and D
reflect significant reactions when the stochastics had readings at or under
25 percent.
The week ending May 3, 2002, formed a doji. Although I have faith in
dojis at market tops for sell signals, I personally do not trust dojis as the holy
grail of buy signals. They do warn me of impending bottoms or indecision
in the downtrend, and I will question if the move will continue. Based on that
knowledge and with the pivot point analysis, I was comfortable with a de-
cision to buy. After all, for this specific trade recommendation, I was willing
to risk 15 points.
Now let’s turn to the daily S&P 500 chart for the same period provided
as Figure 7.5. The long white candle represents Wednesday, May 8, the day
with nearly a 40-point range. Remember the two key numbers using pivot

P-07_4218 2/24/04 2:37 PM Page 120
120 DAY-TRADING, SWING TRADING: Acting on Analysis
Weekly low 1045.8
FIGURE 7.5 The S&P market responds. (Source: FutureSource. Reprinted with
permission.)
point analysis to project the weekly range, S2 support at 1047.8, and R1 re-
sistance at 1088.7. The chart shows the actual low was 1045.8 (arrow) and
the actual high was 1089.9, being 2 points off the low number and 1.2 points
off the target R1 weekly high.
Figure 7.6 demonstrates how, in a given month, one day marks the low
and one day marks the high and somewhere in between those points the
market closes. Thus, a range is established.
When you examine this chart further, you will notice that the market in-
deed bounced off the 1044.83 support area twice during the month of May. By
Friday, May 10, and the following Monday, the price had dipped back down
to retest that low. Notice the bullish divergence that developed in the sto-
chastics. It is not a classic divergence because the futures price did not make
a lower low, but a buy signal was generated. In addition, using candle chart
pattern recognition, notice the bullish belt hold pattern that developed.
Combining all those signs with the monthly R1 support calculations
and the stochastics signal, all three signals triggered another P3T buying
opportunity.

P-07_4218 2/24/04 2:37 PM Page 121
Multiple Time Frames 121
High established on
5/17/02 was 1114.90.
Dashed line represents monthly Bullish belt
low of 1045.80 made on 5/7/02. hold pattern
Bullish
convergence
FIGURE 7.6 Making a P3T buy. (Source: FutureSource. Reprinted with permission.)
MULTIPLE TIME FRAMES
Let’s take a closer look at the importance of using pivot point calculations
from different time frames, mainly the daily, weekly, and monthly target
ranges. Figure 7.7 is a 15-minute candle chart of the S&P 500. Taking the
calculations from data for the prior week that ended on August 30, 2002 (high
956.3, low 902.8, and close 916.1), the weekly S2 target support was 871.57.
Knowing and applying candle chart pattern recognition techniques, you
would have been able to identify a powerful double combination of a bull-
ish harami and a tweezers bottom formation. A weekly support number had
already alerted you that this was an important price level. Add the candle
pattern and you have the start of a trading plan for a long position.
This chart provides another example of a trade setup. Keep in mind that
the market closed on Friday of the prior week at 916.1, so it is tremendously
oversold by Thursday of the following week when this chart was printed.
Another factor to consider is that Monday was a holiday that week so, in
essence, just three trading days took the market down by nearly 45 points.

P-07_4218 2/24/04 2:37 PM Page 122
122 DAY-TRADING, SWING TRADING: Acting on Analysis
Buy
point
Weekly pivot point S2-871.57
Bullish
Tweezer bottom harami
FIGURE 7.7 Bouncing off target support. (Source: FutureSource. Reprinted with
permission.)
Within 30 minutes after trading begins on the New York Stock Ex-
change, S&P 500 futures collapse. A long dark candle breaks below the
871.57 support calculation and establishes a low at 869. That is roughly 2.50
points of slippage below a weekly target number, an important time period.
Notice the lower shadow on the candle, indicating signs of buying near 870.
The very next candle opens higher than the close and forms the bullish
harami and a tweezers bottom. Right then and there a trading decision can
be made. Enter an order to buy at the next time frame’s open with a stop
below the established low, which was 869.
For argument’s sake, let’s say you bought at 874. Your risk is below 869,
so let’s say 867 for the stop. That is initially a 7-point risk. On one e-mini
S&P contract, that is seven times $50 per point, which comes out to $350
per contract. As a day trader, I see a move within two 15-minute candles
that extends up to near 883.50. The third candle after the buy entry point ap-
pears to form a doji followed two candles later by a bearish engulfing pattern.
I have several choices where to take a profit. The market in this example
gives us nearly 45 minutes between 882 and 888 to get out or move stops up

P-07_4218 2/24/04 2:37 PM Page 123
Supporting a Target 123
to at least break even or higher. Let’s say we get out late at 882 or 880, still
a profit of $300 or $400.
With the evidence we had from an oversold market condition, a weekly
support number, and the candle pattern, we had a low-risk trade setup. Ini-
tially using a 7-point stop, we saw the market rally nearly 19 points from 869
to 888.50 within six 15-minute candles or an hour and a half.
SUPPORTING A TARGET
Because there is a tremendous increase in active day traders in stock index
futures, especially the e-mini S&P 500, I want to show several more exam-
ples of how using the daily pivot point numbers could help in the analytical
process. Once the target numbers have been calculated and then plotted on
a chart, you can formulate a trading plan when you identify a candle with
significant characteristics of a buy or sell signal.
On the 60-minute candle chart for S&P futures from late January 2002
(Figure 7.8), 1138.93 was the R1 resistance level. After prices reached that
R1 target from
pivot point
was 1138.93.
Actual high was
1138.7.
Shooting star
formation
Thur. 1/24/02
High 1139.5,
low 1128.8,
close 1133.3 S1 target from
pivot point
1128.2.
Actual low was
1127.7.
FIGURE 7.8 Turning back at target resistance. (Source: FutureSource. Reprinted
with permission.)

P-07_4218 2/24/04 2:37 PM Page 124
124 DAY-TRADING, SWING TRADING: Acting on Analysis
level on Thursday and then fell back, a shooting star candle formation de-
veloped on Friday. This candle has bearish implications and might have
prompted you to establish a short position, placing the stop loss above the
R1 level. The hard part would be to decide where to take a profit.
A nice bullish harami formed and a variation of a morning star forma-
tion also developed on the 60-minute S&P 500 futures chart from August 26,
2003 (Figure 7.9). Although not a textbook example, that pattern might
have given you a bullish bias, causing you to establish a long with the stop
loss below the 929 level, which is slightly below the daily S1 target low
number.
One good point to make here, in all fairness, is that these numbers are
not foolproof. The daily resistance for R1 was 956.83, based on the previous
day’s activity (box), and the actual high reached only 951.3, off by 5.50 points
or so. Looking a little closer, you will note that the rally occurred late in the
day. In fact, the high was made going into the cash market’s close.
As a day trader, looking for high-probability profitable scalp trades is
the main objective. If you had used this technique and hung on to the trade
*Actual high made
on 8/26 was 951.3
956.83 was projected R1.
8/23/02
Using data from 8/23/02,
(high 962.5, low 936.5,
and 941 close), pivot point
calculations projected S1
Bullish harami Buy
at 930.83. The actual low
formation signal
was 930. Confirming buy
use
signal came with 2nd hour bar
929
after the bullish harami formed.
930.83 was projected S1. stop.
FIGURE 7.9 One that did not quite hit the target. (Source: FutureSource. Reprinted
with permission.)

P-07_4218 2/24/04 2:37 PM Page 125
Picking the Market 125
up to the very last minute waiting for the 956 number to materialize, you
would have been disappointed in this case. Overall, however, waiting for a
nice setup pattern to develop and confirming the pivot point target num-
bers is a great method to study.
PICKING THE MARKET
In addition to e-mini S&P 500 futures traded at the Chicago Mercantile Ex-
change, the Chicago Board of Trade offers Dow Jones Industrial Average
futures contracts. Launched in April 2002, the mini-sized Dow contract val-
ued at $5 times the index has been picking up volume quickly although still
well behind the e-mini S&P, now the second most actively traded U.S. fu-
tures contract. Due to the general nature and volatility of the stock markets,
these contracts reveal the increasing demand for smaller and electronically
traded stock index contracts.
As new contracts are introduced, you may be wondering how you can
watch all these different markets? I don’t. I simply watch the ones where I
have my trade alert signals set. By calculating the numbers and choosing 16
markets weekly, I narrow the field down. From those 16, I narrow the day-
trading markets to the S&P, Dow, Nasdaq, and bonds, normally using 60-
minute or 15-minute time periods for my studies.
The weekly numbers keep me focused on an important target for the
week, and the daily numbers keep me focused on chart patterns to see if a
recognizable setup is occurring. By watching the hourly closing time period
to see if a bullish candle pattern appears at an important level of support or
a bearish candle pattern at an area of resistance, I am able to determine a
trading plan with a higher degree of confidence.
The 60-minute chart for the full-size Dow futures contract from late
January 2002 (Figure 7.10) features several good examples of signals. In
this case, using the data from January 24 (high 9855, low 9760, and close
9794), we calculated the S1 support for January 25 at 9751. During the sec-
ond hour of trading on January 25, a bullish engulfing pattern formed and
generated a strong buy signal. The opening of the third 60-minute period pro-
vided an opportunity to go long near 9790, using a stop below the low of 9735.
In fact, a stop could have been placed below 9750 to bring the risk down to
$400 ($10 times 40 points). Within one hour the market advanced to 9860
and gave an opportunity to move stops up or get out of a long position near
the R1 resistance number of 9846. Three hours later the price advanced to
a high of 9895, generating an opportunity to liquidate the long position near
the daily resistance R2 of 9898.
The chart also points out why this analysis is not a precise science.
With the S1 support target for the trading session at 9751, the actual low was

P-07_4218 2/24/04 2:37 PM Page 126
126 DAY-TRADING, SWING TRADING: Acting on Analysis
R2- 9898
R1- 9846
Buy
signal
Bullish
engulfing
Pivot point calculations derived from pattern
data from trading session on 1/24/02.
High 9855, low 9760, close 9794.
FIGURE 7.10 Finding the range. (Source: FutureSource. Reprinted with permission.)
9735. That is 16 ticks of slippage, which equates to $160 on the $10 per tick
contract.
The 15-minute bond futures chart shown as Figure 7.11 is a P3T trade
signal combining pivot point calculations with reliable candle patterns that
also is an example of establishing risk factors or stop loss points that can
help you attain a higher frequency of winning trades. At the very least, if
you do your pivot point homework and watch the chart patterns at the
close of each time period (15 minutes), then I believe you will not be selling
the low of the range or buying the high of the range. When there are losers—
and there will be—your loss amounts should not be as significant as they
could be.
If you sold bonds near the low of the day near 110 because you were
convinced the market was headed down and held on to that position up to
the 111-16 level, the high of the day, you would probably agree it would have
paid to have the pivot point numbers at hand. If you had them, you would
have seen that the low was near the targeted low based off the S2 support
number of 110 even. You may not have gone long at 110 because of your bear-
ish conviction, but if you had the numbers, knew how to identify important

P-07_4218 2/24/04 2:37 PM Page 127
Picking the Market 127
Daily R2 resistance 111 18/32
Shooting star
formation
followed by
dragonfly doji
Calculations based on data from 9/9/02.
High was 111 08/32, low was 110 15/32,
and close was 110 20/32.
Bearish
harami cross
Variation morning
Daily S2 support 110 even star formation
FIGURE 7.11 P3T trade in bonds. (Source: FutureSource. Reprinted with permission.)
candle formations, and practiced patience, you may have effectively gone
short closer to 111-10.
The shooting star followed by the dragonfly doji signaled a top was near.
Once the bearish harami cross formed, that should have given you ample
conviction to sell short with stops above 111-18. The obvious question is:
Where would you rather be short from, the 110 level or the 111-08 area? Of
course, you’d like the 111-08 level. As a day trader you may have bought the
low near 110 and placed stops below 109-31 once you had confirmation of
the morning star pattern.
Here were two trade signals that were provided with candle chart for-
mations at specific pivot point key numbers. Using effective risk manage-
ment from proper stop loss order entry points is half the battle to consistent
winning trades and wealth building.
Here, too, was a great opportunity for a short position at the 111-08 to
111-12 level. By the close of the market’s open-outcry session, there wasn’t
much profit in the trade. But, because bonds trade virtually 24 hours, hold-
ing a short position overnight is manageable. Figure 7.12, a compressed 15-
minute chart, shows the results of this trade and the effects that a shooting

P-07_4218 2/24/04 2:37 PM Page 128
128 DAY-TRADING, SWING TRADING: Acting on Analysis
FIGURE 7.12 P3T trade results. (Source: FutureSource. Reprinted with permission.)
star, dragonfly doji, and a bearish harami cross combination can have. The
market fell to a low of 109-27 in less than 24 hours.
Once again, the hard part was deciding where to take a profit. If you
don’t remember, here is a solution to that problem: Move your stops down!
The double bottom formation was a good spot to identify for taking nearly
11⁄2basis points or $1,500 out of the market.
Let’s take on a more challenging situation, a 5-minute Dow futures chart
with the price action on a day when an extraordinary event occurred (Fig-
ure 7.13). That was November 6, 2002, the day that the Federal Reserve pol-
icy-setting group, the Federal Open Market Committee, surprised the world
with a 50-point decrease in the Fed funds rate, the first interest rate adjust-
ment during 2002.
Was that a catalyst to incite volatility? You bet! But the pivot point
numbers still identified the potential range for that day. Taking the data
from the prior day’s session (November 5, 2002, high of 8675, low of 8515,
and close of 8648) placed the R2 resistance at 8771 and the S2 support
at 8551, almost exactly on the high and low for the volatile trading day of
November 6.

P-07_4218 2/24/04 2:37 PM Page 129
Picking the Market 129
Target resistance on Rickshaw doji
Wednesday was 8771.
Fed announcement
Bullish
Target support on Wednesday piercing
was 8551. pattern
FIGURE 7.13 On target on an amazing day. (Source: FutureSource. Reprinted with
permission.)
Take a look at the daily mini-sized Dow futures chart, starting with the
actual low established at 7180 in October 2002 provided as Figure 7.14. Using
data from the previous week ending October 4, 2002, the high was 7980; the
low, 7450; and the close, 7550. That calculated out the S2 support at 7130, a
small percentage margin of error. It was the bullish piercing pattern sup-
ported by the next long white candle’s higher open that may have helped you
catch a portion of that bottom price reversal.
Now look at the last three candles. The first two formed a bearish
harami. That actually concluded the week on November 29, 2002, and, of
course, ended the month of November. Taking the weekly range for the week
ending November 29, 2002, the high was 8962; the low, 8660; and the close,
8870. The pivot point calculation reveals 9001 as the R1 weekly resistance
number. On December 2, a Monday, the high was 9040, again a small mar-
gin of error of 39 Dow points. However, on that day, an extremely powerful
doji candle formed. This particular doji, termed a long-legged doji or rick-
shaw doji, had helped to confirm the prior week’s bearish harami formation
as a sell signal. In addition, you had the weekly target resistance number of

P-07_4218 2/24/04 2:37 PM Page 130
130 DAY-TRADING, SWING TRADING: Acting on Analysis
Weekly target resistance was 9001.
Rickshaw doji
Bullish piercing pattern
Weekly target support was 7130.
FIGURE 7.14 Reaching for the targets. (Source: FutureSource. Reprinted with
permission.)
9001. That collection of indicators should have provided a wealth of sell sig-
nals in developing a proper game plan. At the very least it would have kept
you from buying the high.
As the week finished and then continuing into the next week, the tar-
geted S1 support was 8414. Again, that is based off the data collected from
the week ending December 6—a high of 9040, low of 8485, and a close at
8657. If you were short, you may have earned nearly a 600-point decline for
your trading account. The established low was 8441 on December 9 (Fig-
ure 7.15).
For the short-term or swing trader, action on the 15-minute Dow chart
during this period on December 6 should be of interest (Figure 7.16). Dur-
ing the decline from the peak at 9040, the market did have some short-term
correcting rallies. Using the prior day’s figures from December 5 for the pivot
point calculations (high 8828, low 8605, and close 8640), R1 resistance is
8777 and S1 support is 8468. Using the numbers from the prior week ending
November 29 listed previously, S-2 support is 8528.The daily and corre-

P-07_4218 2/24/04 2:37 PM Page 131
Summing Up Trading Tips 131
Weekly target support was 8414,
nearly a 600-point DOW decline
from the high of 12/02/02.
FIGURE 7.15 Aftermath of doji top. (Source: FutureSource. Reprinted with
permission.)
sponding weekly calculations, in addition to the bullish harami cross can-
dle pattern, alerted a trader to a nearly 150-point Dow rally. This is another
excellent example of how a textbook setup would help a trader identify an
executable trade.
SUMMING UP TRADING TIPS
Here are some suggestions that may help you in day-trading or short-term
swing trading:
• I use all sessions for the high, low, and close for the markets that trade
24 hours a day. Some quote vendors split the data between night and
day. I combine both sessions as one day because that’s what they are.
Last night’s high applies to the next day session’s range, so I use that for
my data in calculating the numbers.

P-07_4218 2/24/04 2:37 PM Page 132
132 DAY-TRADING, SWING TRADING: Acting on Analysis
Bullish harami cross
Weekly support was 8528.
Daily support was 8468.
FIGURE 7.16 Short-term bounce. (Source: FutureSource. Reprinted with permission.)
• Tops take longer to form than bottoms so I will usually look for a sec-
ond bearish candle formation at an important resistance number as a
place to sell short.
• There are five business days in every week and usually four weeks in
every month. One day within a month will mark a high, one day will gen-
erally mark a low, and the market will close somewhere between those
points. That is what is called the range. The difference between a suc-
cessful trader and a not so successful trader is the successful trader does
not make a habit of buying the high of the range or selling the low of the
range. When you are trading, at times it is hard to keep your emotions in
check, so it is good to apply time and price logic in your thinking.
• Technical analysis is considered by most professionals to be an art and
not an exact science. As technicians, we look at indicators or we rely
on price pattern recognition techniques to give us clues to help interpret
or anticipate the price direction or price movement of a market. Using
these pivot point techniques combined with a discretionary method
such as charting and chart pattern recognition allows a trader to have
freedom of decision making while incorporating the flexibility of a me-

P-07_4218 2/24/04 2:37 PM Page 133
Summing Up Trading Tips 133
chanical trading method with prescribed numbers. This precise method-
ology will help eliminate and potentially solve the problem of trading
on emotions and spur-of-the-moment hunches.
• Candle charting helps me clearly visualize chart pattern signals, and
pivot point analysis alerts me to the potential highs and lows of a given
time period of a particular market. Including other forms of technical
analysis such as stochastics, moving averages, MACD studies, volume,
and open interest helps me to make a logical, informed trading deci-
sion, where I can set my entry and exit points as well as define my risk
parameters.
• As a trader, if you are out of money and have no more capital to work
with, you are out of business. The elements necessary for generating
profits as a trader are identifying and then acting on good trade signals.
More important, when you are wrong, know when to get out, and act ac-
cordingly. These are the key elements for continuing to be a successful
trader.
• Using pivot point analysis in your trading plans can help you not only
plan your trades but also help establish and pinpoint entry and exit
points as your personal target trading techniques. Most traders who are
not familiar with using pivot points become excited and amazed at its
consistency in predicting support and resistance in different time frames
and for most markets.
• To stay on top of your technical analysis skills, I strongly recommend
that all readers expand their knowledge and continue to learn new tech-
niques as well as take a refresher course on the old ones.

P-07_4218 2/24/04 2:37 PM Page 134

P-08_4218 2/24/04 2:41 PM Page 135
CHAPTER 8
Technical
Indicators
Confirming Evidence
The three purposes of thinking are to solve prob-
lems, to create opportunities, and to enrich the
human condition.
—Abraham Lincoln
L
incoln’s statement was made long ago, but it really is the essence of
this trading business. Which way will the market go? What indicators
do I have to rely on? What influences are there on the market from a
fundamental perspective? How can I benefit from this knowledge? Is the
risk worth the reward? If I’m right, how much can I make? All of these ques-
tions require thinking.
To put more light on your analysis that will help you form an opinion
about market direction, I would like to introduce you to other forms of in-
dicators that can be applied in conjunction with pivot point and candle chart
analysis—trading tools related by the use of mathematical formulas. Let me
emphasize up front what follows is not a comprehensive explanation of all
the indicators available. There are dozens of indicators, and some may be
more valuable to you than those I describe. However, these are the indicators
I use most frequently in my analysis.
MOVING AVERAGES
A moving average is defined as dividing the sum of two or more figures by
the number of figures. In trading, that means adding up the price inputs for
135

P-08_4218 2/24/04 2:41 PM Page 136
136 TECHNICAL INDICATORS: Confirming Evidence
a given number of time periods and then dividing the sum by the number of
time periods. Thus:
(Price 1 + Price 2)
Moving average = ————————
n
wheren= the number of time periods.
Calculating simple moving averages can be useful for trend analysis and
even in advanced computer trading systems. They are also used for identify-
ing levels of support and resistance. Traders can use one moving average or
combine a few different ones to overlay on their charts. By using short-term,
intermediate-term, and long-term averages on top of a chart, you can see the
trend direction of market prices from a different perspective. Typical time
periods for multiple moving averages are 4, 9, and 18 periods, but today’s
software allows you to use any number of periods you want.
Linearly weighted moving averagescan be calculated by taking, say,
a five-day time period and multiplying the close of the last time period by
five, multiplying the close of the previous time period by four, multiplying the
close of the time period before that by three, and so on. Add the sum of all
five time periods and then divide by five to get a weighted average that gives
more significance to the most recent price action.
Exponential moving averagesare calculated from complex formulas
and have become the most common averages used today by many quote
vendors, analysts, and traders as they also are weighted to give more impor-
tance to the latest data from current market conditions, and older data that
becomes less important as time passes are eventually filtered out.
Calculating all of these numbers by hand or even with a calculator is te-
dious and time-consuming, but, fortunately, computers can now figure all of
that out for us. I believe in the KISS method—keep it simple, stupid.
Many rules can be applied in moving average analysis. Different time
periods can be used from, say, 3 minutes to 200 days. Generally speaking,
longer-term time periods in moving average calculations will generate fewer
trade signals than shorter-term time period calculations will. Different price
points or averages of an average can be used. For example, you can take the
average on a closing basis, or you can include the high, low, or even the
range of a given time period average in an average.
Here are the simplest rules for trading moving averages:
• If the market is trading above the moving average, you should be long.
• If the market is trading below the moving average, you should be short.
• When the market has been trading below a moving average and then
breaks out above it, you have a buy signal.

P-08_4218 2/24/04 2:41 PM Page 137
Moving Averages 137
• When the market has been trading above a moving average and then
breaks out below it, you have a sell signal.
• Buy or sell signals can also be generated when a short-term moving av-
erage crosses over a longer-term moving average.
Moving average techniques are numerous, from the simple to the com-
plex trading system that a programmer can create for a computer to gener-
ate signals based on crossovers or price breakouts of moving average
points of interest.
First, however, you should realize an important aspect about moving
averages: They do not work well in volatile, choppy conditions or in mar-
kets that are in a trading range. In these trading range conditions, buy and
sell signals will be generated every time the market gyrates above and
below the moving average lines. Responding to this activity will simply kill
you and your trading capital. A market spends most of its time in a con-
solidation phase and only about a third of its time in a trending mode, so
that is a factor you have to keep in mind before relying on moving averages
too much.
A more proven method of trading moving averages is the dead crossthat
occurs when a shorter-term moving average falls below the longer-term av-
erage and a downtrend is initiated. When a golden crossoccurs, the short-
term moving average crosses above the longer-term average.
Moving average crossover signals can get you positioned for some nice
trends, as shown on Figure 8.1, the weekly crude oil chart showing moving
averages of 5, 10, and 20 periods. You can watch various time frames, but
my favorites are 3, 9, and 18 periods for most markets on a daily basis. The
most popular longer-term moving averages for equity markets and individ-
ual stocks are 50, 100, and 200 days.
Most of the time the point of crossover is a significant point of resis-
tance or support for future reference points of interest. Why? Because this
is the actual point from which traders see a signal generated. Whenever you
look at a chart, it is easy to see the old highs or lows. But to examine where
the breakdown of support and the breakout of resistance occurred, overlay
the 3-, 9-, and 18-period moving averages on a chart. A lot of time you will
see that a market does not rally to test the old highs but, instead, goes up to
test the point of the moving average crossover.
Does this move to a crossover point guarantee a winning trade every
time you sell when a market revisits the old crossovers? Of course not. What
it can do is illustrate a potential turning signal. It is wise to have other forms
of verifying analytical methods to increase your odds of a successful trade.
Note on Figure 8.1 that the crude oil market shows both a dead cross before
a price decline and a golden cross before a price advance.

P-08_4218 2/24/04 2:41 PM Page 138
138 TECHNICAL INDICATORS: Confirming Evidence
Moving average cross
Moving average cross
FIGURE 8.1 Crossing over. (Source:FutureSource. Reprinted with permission.)
Resistance levels such as this crossover point can have one of three
qualities: (1) create a reversal level, (2) cause a pause in an advancing trend,
or (3) have little effect at all. That is why momentum traders reverse their
positions if an important resistance level is violated. Generally, you do see
markets return to test old highs or lows—that is what creates the double
tops and double bottoms. But, in other instances, the moving average
crossover is the actual signal point.
Figure 8.2, the daily chart of crude oil, shows moving averages of 3, 9,
and 18 days with the crossover point in March at or near $31 a barrel. This ac-
tivity illustrates that a market tends to test the point of crossover, as it did
in June, rather than the actual high.
In preparing my newsletter on Friday, June 6, I noted that not only was
the week’s pivot point resistance number $31.05, but it also was a monthly
pivot point resistance level as well. Checking to see what relevant resis-
tance there was near $31, I overlaid the 3-, 9-, and 18-day moving averages.
Lo and behold, there was the dead cross that occurred back in March when
the market peaked near $32.50. My expectation was for a significant rever-
sal, based on the confluence of resistance points plus the dead cross. The

P-08_4218 2/24/04 2:41 PM Page 139
Moving Averages 139
3 period M/A crosses over 9 period.
9 period M/A crosses over 18 period.
FIGURE 8.2 Test of moving average crossover. (Source:FutureSource. Reprinted
with permission.)
recommendation was to sell near $31, using $31.49 as a stop. I also suggested
looking at buying September 28 put options. (See more on the topic of op-
tions in Chapter 13.)
My analysis of the potential for a rally to test and then fail at or near $31
was an accurate decision based solely on these methods of technical analy-
sis. The market did make a high the following week on Wednesday, June 11,
at $31.15 and then proceeded to sell off nearly $2.40 per barrel to a low at
$28.75 within two days. As a trader, I am only interested in capturing a
trade, not a long-term investment in crude oil.
Arguably, the hardest part of this move would be to manage the exit
point to determine a profit amount, right? Wrong. First, you should have
moved stops down to the level above the 3-day moving average, which is
$30.23. That at least locks in a profit. Second, if you were a multiple contract
trader, you would get out of half of your positions as the market touched
the 18-day moving average as that level will act as support—and it did! Rule
of thumb: If you make 100 percent of your initial margin requirement, get out
of the trade if you are a one-contract trader. Multiple position traders should

P-08_4218 2/24/04 2:41 PM Page 140
140 TECHNICAL INDICATORS: Confirming Evidence
move stops down and get out of half of their positions. Placing stops above
the 3-day and even the 9-day moving average on the balance of positions is
a smart placement level as these moving averages have a solid history of
acting as a support or resistance level.
If the greatest story ever told is the Bible, I believe the second greatest
story ever told is a chart. There are no opinions, only facts and pure price
data. That is why they say charts don’t lie.
The daily silver chart shown as Figure 8.3 paints a great story and helps
to substantiate the lesson about moving averages. The beginning point of
interest is the crossover that occurred in March around $4.67 an ounce. Note
that this is where the market paused (Point A) after testing the crossover
resistance point. It actually helped to generate a small 12-cent pullback, co-
incidently right back near the 18-day moving average (Point B). Then a belt
hold (or benchmark) candle blasted through that resistance level (Point C).
Earlier in this chapter I mentioned that once a significant resistance level
is violated, momentum traders may reverse positions. Also, I mentioned that
Moving average crossover C
The beginning point of interest! Candle
D
midpoint
A
B
FIGURE 8.3 Testing reference points. (Source:FutureSource. Reprinted with
permission.)

P-08_4218 2/24/04 2:41 PM Page 141
Moving Averages 141
the midpoint of a benchmark candle will offer a first support level on pull-
backs—after all, isn’t the midpoint the average of the range? Figure 8.3
shows an example as that candle’s midpoint served as a strong level of sup-
port for nearly 13 trading sessions. Once that failed, the market continued
lower. That final break below the candle’s midpoint was also about the time
when the 3-period moving average formed a dead cross, confirming that the
bull trend had ended.
You can analyze the same silver chart to point out where silver prices
might stop descending and find support (Figure 8.4). Recalling that a sup-
port or resistance level may act as a reversal point or a pausing point or fail
and do nothing at all, here is how I analyzed this situation in making a rec-
ommendation to go long in my weekly newsletter for the week ending June
13. I like to use other methods of analysis, as you may have guessed, partic-
ularly pivot points. The weekly pivot point support was $4.49, the monthly
support number was calculated as $4.39. The moving average crossover in
early April occurred in the $4.45 area. Plus a gap existed near that level. Sil-
ver made a brief low on Wednesday, June 11 (coincidentally, the same day
M/A crossover forms.
Moving average crossover.
Midpoint
Look for “test of the cross”
candle
rather than the test of an
fails.
actual price low.
Old low
FIGURE 8.4 Signs of the end. (Source:FutureSource. Reprinted with permission.)

P-08_4218 2/24/04 2:41 PM Page 142
142 TECHNICAL INDICATORS: Confirming Evidence
crude oil made its high). It rallied 16 cents from that low to the high of $4.60
two days later—certainly not a substantial move, but it was a nice trade after
spotting the potential reversal signal from the 3-period moving average
crossover level.
My most fervent advice: Use the pivot point numbers on a weekly and
monthly basis when they coincide with a moving average support or resis-
tance level or a crossover intersection. Act on the signal with an appropri-
ate stop or risk level. Generally, that should be a point established below
the actual low or high in relationship to the area of the moving average
crossover.
For example, based on the weekly pivot point number, the buy signal on
the silver chart (Figure 8.4) was $4.49. The moving average crossover was at
$4.45. The previous low was $4.38. A good trading plan would be to buy near
$4.45 up to $4.49 with stops below $4.38. Once the market moves off that
low, manage the trade by monitoring the price action and moving stops up
to the breakeven point. As silver prices move higher, adjust your stops to
start protecting a profit.
Never—I mean never!—keep your stop at breakeven all the time. My
reason is that once you establish the trade, you enter a risk situation. Once
the trade moves to breakeven, you still need to keep your stop at the origi-
nal loss amount. You do not want to be stopped out prematurely. Besides,
the market really hasn’t moved. However, once the market finally does ad-
vance, look to adjust your stop from risk to breakeven.
Remember the rule of thumb: If you make a 100 percent return on your
initial margin requirement, liquidate half of your position, especially if the
move occurs in a short period of time such as a day or two. This book is
about trading, which is another way of saying base hits. Futures is not about
long-term investing or waiting for each trade to turn into home runs.
Victor Niederhoffer gave a great word of advice on my radio program
on June 18, 2003: “Don’t try to be number one always looking to be in the top
25 percent.” His point was not to get too aggressive and to take profits.
MOVING AVERAGE CONVERGENCE/DIVERGENCE
More commonly known as MACD, moving average convergence/divergence
in simplest terms is an indicator that shows when a short-term moving av-
erage crosses over a longer-term moving average. Gerald Appel developed
MACD as we know it today, and it is my understanding that he developed it
for the purpose of trading stocks.
MACD includes three exponential moving averages (EMA). The initial
inputs for the calculations were 9, 12, and 26 periods. Because traders are

P-08_4218 2/24/04 2:41 PM Page 143
Moving Average Convergence/Divergence 143
now more computer savvy than ever before, it is easy to change or tweak the
variables in the original calculations. You can increase the time periods in
the moving average calculations to generate fewer trade signals or shorten
the time periods to generate more trade signals.
The 12-period and 26-period EMAs are usually based on closing prices
(you could choose some other price component). When you subtract the
26-period EMA from the 12-period EMA, you get a difference known as the
fastMACD line. Then you use the fast line to calculate a 9-period EMA, which
gives you the slowline. When the fast line crosses above the slow line, a buy
signal is generated. When the fast line crosses below the slow line, a sell sig-
nal is generated.
MACD signals react quickly to changes in the market. That is why many
analysts including myself use this indicator, which helps to clear the picture
when moving average crossovers occur. One of the most useful clues pro-
vided by this indicator, as with a number of other indicators, is known as
divergence. This is a condition where the market price makes a low that is
lower than a previous low but the underlying MACD pattern makes a higher
low. This divergence indicates that the low is weak or a false bottom due to
less selling pressure and signals a potential price reversal. The same is true
in an uptrend when prices make a higher high but MACD makes a lower
high, indicating a potential change to lower prices.
The weekly S&P 500 cash index provides an example (Figure 8.5). Prices
made a lower low in September than in the March/April time frame (A), but
the MACD made a higher high, which signaled the low was exhausted and
was a false bottom. The market moved higher for about six months before
the next wave lower formed a potential new setup for a bullish divergence
buy signal (B).
A relatively newer method of using MACD features a graph called a his-
togram, which indicates the difference between the fast and slow MACD
lines. I personally prefer the regular graph instead of the histogram when
looking at this indicator, but the concept of the histogram is that if the bars
are above the zero line, you should be long, and if the bars are below the zero
line, you should be short. If the bars below the zero line are getting shorter
or if the bars above the zero line are getting longer, it indicates that prices
are rising and you want to trade the market from the long side. Conversely,
if the bars above the zero line are getting shorter or if the bars below the zero
line are getting longer, it indicates prices are falling and you want to trade
from the short side.
Again, divergence is important, as Figure 8.6, the S&P cash index chart,
shows. If prices continue to increase but the histogram bars above the zero
line become smaller, then an impending change may be in store as the his-
togram suggests the uptrend may be running out of steam. Point C on the
chart provides a good example.

P-08_4218 2/24/04 2:41 PM Page 144
144 TECHNICAL INDICATORS: Confirming Evidence
A
B
FIGURE 8.5 MACD, price convergence. (Source:FutureSource. Reprinted with
permission.)
STOCHASTICS
George C. Lane is credited with creating the formula for a momentum os-
cillator indicator called stochastics. Here is another example of a person
whose passion for the field of technical analysis motivated research into
price behavior and resulted in a true master technician. George and his
wife Carrie both are excellent teachers and truly care about their students.
These are people that you want to meet and learn from.
Lane’s stochastics indicator is a popular technical tool used to help de-
termine whether a market is overbought,meaning that prices have advanced
too far too soon and are due for a downside correction, or oversold,meaning
prices have declined too far too fast and are due for an upside correction. The
mathematical formula for stochastics compares the settlement price of a spe-
cific time period to the price range of a specific number of past periods.
The theory works off the assumption that, in a bull or uptrending market,
prices tend to make higher highs and the settlement price usually tends to be

P-08_4218 2/24/04 2:41 PM Page 145
Stochastics 145
B
A
C
FIGURE 8.6 Divergence signals change. (Source:FutureSource. Reprinted with
permission.)
in the upper end of that time period’s trading range. When the momentum
starts to slow, the settlement prices will start to fade from the upper bound-
aries of the range, and stochastics will show that the bullish momentum
is starting to fade. The exact opposite is true for bear or downtrending
markets.
The two lines in stochastics are referred to as %K and %D. These are plot-
ted on a horizontal axis for a given time period, and the vertical axis is plot-
ted on a scale from 0 percent to 100 percent. The formula to calculate the
first component, %K, is:
%K = (c–Ln/Hn–Ln)×100
where c= closing price of current period
Ln= lowest low during nperiod of time
Hn= highest high during nperiod of time and
n= number of periods

P-08_4218 2/24/04 2:41 PM Page 146
146 TECHNICAL INDICATORS: Confirming Evidence
The second calculation is the %D figure, which is the moving average of %K.
Here is the %D calculation:
%D = 100(Hn/Ln)
whereHnis the nperiod sum of (c–Ln).
Wow, isn’t that something?! Is the formula worth knowing and doing by
hand? No way! Fortunately, computers calculate stochastics for us, and
most software vendors include stochastics in their services.
What is important is understanding the rules about how to interpret
buy or sell signals:
• When the readings are above 70 percent and %K crosses over the %D
line and both lines are pointing down, a hook sell signal is generated.
• When %K crosses above %D when the reading is below 30 percent and
both lines are pointing up, a buy signal is generated.
Some people adjust the 30-70 parameters, and there are other techniques
associated with using stochastics. One is a trading pattern called bullish
convergence,which is used in identifying market bottoms. The market price
itself makes a lower low than a previous low, but the underlying stochastic
pattern makes a higher low, indicating that the low is a false bottom and
can result in a price reversal.
Another signal is a trading pattern called bearish divergence,which is
used in identifying market tops. The market price itself makes a higher high
than a previous high, but the underlying stochastic pattern makes a lower
high, indicating that the second high is a weak high and can result in a lower
price reversal.
These patterns are similar to those of the MACD indicator. Stochastics
can be programmed for trading on a one-minute, daily, or monthly basis.
Short-term professional day traders and long-term traders can and do use
this indicator. Stochastics do well in volatile or choppy market conditions,
unlike moving average studies, which do not. However, in trending market
conditions, stochastics may generate false buy or sell signals.
Visual observation of your charts combined with the help of computer-
calculated price indicators can be powerful aids for traders. The general rule
is to trade and use signals that coincide with the overall trend. For example,
if the trend is down, wait for a correction and then watch for a sell signal to
develop.
As seen in Figure 8.7, the trend is clearly lower on the S&P 500 futures
chart in the first week of May when the stochastics generates a bullish diver-
gence buy signal and the market shows a 50-plus point gain. By the end of

P-08_4218 2/24/04 2:41 PM Page 147
Stochastics 147
FIGURE 8.7 Stochastics show divergence. (Source:FutureSource. Reprinted with
permission.)
May a bearish divergence developed as the market trend continued lower
and stochastics made an even steeper decline. Notice that during the whole
downtrend that followed, the stochastics indicator continued to generate
buy signals. There are small gains that are tradable for a one-day or two-day
swing trader, but the difficulty is that the only classic stochastics signal
where the %K and %D cross over is the sell signal back in late May when the
stochastics readings were above 75 percent.
Figure 8.8 is a classic example of bearish divergence on a weekly chart
of the euro currency futures contract. A little background on the fundamen-
tals will help you understand the importance of this chart. The U.S. stock
market was in a severe decline, and foreign investors were pulling their cap-
ital out of the United States—things looked bleak. Remember, as the U.S.
dollar declines, foreign currencies increase in value. Looking at the chart, no-
tice how the stochastics signaled bearish divergence as the euro hit 101.80,
a new high, in the week ending July 19, 2002, but stochastics did not make
a new higher high.

P-08_4218 2/24/04 2:41 PM Page 148
148 TECHNICAL INDICATORS: Confirming Evidence
Market price makes higher highs.
Stochastic signals
bearish divergence
makes lower highs.
FIGURE 8.8 Divergence at the top. (Source:FutureSource. Reprinted with
permission.)
In addition to stochastics indicating a bearish divergence sell signal,
euro prices for the following week, ending July 26, had formed a long dark
candle and closed lower and below the previous week’s close and low. Fur-
ther, if you had the monthly pivot point price projections, you would have
known that the R1 target high for the July time period was 101.40. The ac-
tual high was 101.80. Yes, this chart should be used as an example under
pivot point analysis, but the stochastics bearish divergence was a powerful
influence as well.
Look at the euro picture again a few weeks later as shown in Figure 8.9.
After the combination of sell signals, the market tumbled back to the
96.00–96.50 level, failing to continue higher and consolidating in a lower
trading range. This is a good example of how to use the verification from
stochastics to exit long positions or, at the very least, to not enter a long po-
sition at the very top. Using candlestick charting may have given you the vi-
sual pattern recognition alert to help you identify a top or turning point in
the trend. Combined with pivot point monthly analysis, these signals again
provided a proven winning technique, verified by the stochastics signal.

P-08_4218 2/24/04 2:41 PM Page 149
Gann Theory 149
Euro rally stalled with advanced warning
from the monthly pivot point R1 of 1.0140
and the stochastics indicator signaling
bearish divergence.
FIGURE 8.9 Stochastics verification. (Source:FutureSource. Reprinted with
permission.)
GANN THEORY
William D. Gann was a trader in the first half of the 20th century who died
in 1955 and left behind a legacy of instrumental and complex trading theo-
ries. His philosophy of trading was considered to be a mixture of mathe-
matical, geometrical, and astrological analysis. Truly a legend, the secrets
behind his trading tools and methodology consisted of two things, hard work
and common sense.
Gann’s techniques were based not only on measurements of price but
also on time and cycles. Time turns or counts are as important and signifi-
cant for the market’s price behavior as cycles are for nature. Look at the
changes from night and day, high tide and low tide, winter and summer sea-
sons. These times can be determined by mathematical calculations, and
Gann believed the markets could be as well.
Among the concepts Gann used were price corrections based on per-
centages derived by dividing the market’s price action into eighths as well
as thirds. He is also famous for developing the importance of a 45-degree

P-08_4218 2/24/04 2:41 PM Page 150
150 TECHNICAL INDICATORS: Confirming Evidence
trend-line angle, the Gann “Cardinal Square,” and the timing of market events
based on the degrees of a circle such as 30, 60, 90, 180, and 360 degrees. If
the market made a bottom today, he would try to calculate the next turning
point using these numbers to project into the future.
Gann also was big on anniversary dates of big events—for instance, 1
month, 3 months, and 12 months. There was also the 144-day period, the
only square Fibonacci number. Some chartists believe in filtering out a lot
of these calculations and just using the basics. Gann methods alone would
make a book and are far too extensive to cover here. Gann wrote a book,
How to Make Profits in Commodities,which would be a great place to start
if you want further information on his teachings.
FIBONACCI NUMBERS
Thirteenth-century Italian mathematician Leonardo Fibonacci concluded
that a number sequence reflected human nature and that patterns repeated
themselves in a certain order. The Fibonacci series,as it is called, is an in-
finite series of numbers that adds each number to the previous number such
that 1 + 1 = 2, 2 + 1 = 3, 3 + 2 = 5, 5 + 3 = 8, and so on to get a number se-
quence of 1, 1, 2, 3, 5, 8, 13, 21, 34, 55, 89, 144, .... These numbers are used
to help cycle analysts time market turns and lengths of price moves. Major
tops or bottoms are often calculated by starting with the event of a high or
low and then calculating out in time and price increments that correspond
to the Fibonacci series.
Fibonacci’s work can be applied to trading in various ways. You can look
at time cycles, searching for a coincidence of a reoccurring pattern that de-
velops on a historic basis such as every 21, 34, 55, or 144 days or perhaps 3,
13, 21, 34, . . . weeks. If you do a little math, you will see that the numbers,
other than the first few smaller ones, all have the same consistent ratio to
each other. These ratios—0.382, 0.50, 0.618, 0.768, 1.00—show up often in
analysts’ research as price retracement levels, wave lengths, time projec-
tions, and in other ways. For example, you can take the distance in time
from price peak to peak and then apply these ratios to help predict the tim-
ing of the next potential peak or smaller or larger peaks.
Figure 8.10, the S&P 500 futures chart, shows a five-month cycle count.
Not only did the low on July 24, 2002, fall on the five-month number but also
on the day of a full moon. The significance of the five-month cycle is that it
is a Fibonacci series number and is approximately 100 trading days, which
is a Fibonacci ratio figure and the length of a moving average that many
traders watch. Not all of the lows on the chart are monumental lows, but
more times than not they are distinctive lows. Pivot point analysis pinpointed
the R2 target weekly low for the July low at 781.67, close to the actual figure.

P-08_4218 2/24/04 2:41 PM Page 151
Fibonacci Numbers 151
5-month cycle lows
FIGURE 8.10 Five-month cycles in S&P 500 index. (Source:FutureSource.
Reprinted with permission.)
This market had many good clues for a potential bottom to occur. How-
ever, keep in mind that picking bottoms can be hazardous to your wealth.
This information might have at least kept you from selling short in the hole.
When looking for a cycle occurrence—in other words, a repetitive
pattern—go back to historical price moves. This research may prove to be
enlightening for your trading. Here is an example taken from an article that
was e-mailed to clients and posted on my web site on Tuesday, July 23,
2002, the day before the Dow made a bottom at 7450 and the S&P 500 index
low was 771.30.
The seven worst months for the S&P 500 since the inception of stock
index futures in 1982 were, in calendar order:
1. October 1987, 152 points
2. October 1997, 148 points
3. August 1998, 175 points

P-08_4218 2/24/04 2:41 PM Page 152
152 TECHNICAL INDICATORS: Confirming Evidence
4. April 2000, 201 points
5. March 2001, 182 points
6. September 2001, 219 points
7. July 2002 (as of July 23), 208.5 points (996.5 high to the low right
now of 788)
Is it wrong buying near such an extreme decline, knowing what the
results were every time the market experienced such declines of this
magnitude? If you were wondering why I am not bearish now, it is
because of historical standards. The market price usually dictates a
substantial rally after severe monthly declines. Odds of being right
that the market will rebound when the market declines between 150
and 219 points are good. In fact, all declines before the 201-point de-
cline in April 2000 resulted in a continuation of a bull market. The
April 2000 decline still resulted in sharp advances before the down-
trend continued.
There are chartists who see the head-and-shoulders formation on a
monthly chart, and that is one reason for their price projections to 550.
It is possible, but I do not believe it will be this month or this year. El-
liott wave theorists believe we will never see 10,000 in the Dow ever
again. Well, that could be, but let me share with you one thought. Joe
Granville (older investors may remember that name) was a major
doom-and-gloomer back in 1980 when I got in the business. He was
warning that the Dow would crash even back then. The Dow was at
900. As we know now, it is at 7700. That crash he warned about? Never
happened.
What’s my point? Try not to get bearish in the hole, and never
follow the herd mentality. Use common sense and always—I mean
always—use stops.
By identifying the five-month cycle low count and looking at the his-
torical price record, I was able to make a keen observation and share it with
my fellow investors. A good plan based on good analysis does pay off!
This book was not intended to go much into cycle studies. However, the
amazing repetitiveness of another timing cycle is worth mentioning. The eq-
uities market seems to respond to what I identified as an 11-week cycle low
back in late 2001. The relevance of the 11-week cycle is that it is approxi-
mately 55 trading days—the number 55 is a Fibonacci series number, and it
is approximately half or 50 percent of the five-month cycle. The 50 percent
Fibonacci ratio number also interacts as a reference with the 11-week cycle.
So there is a connection with the Fibonacci series and ratio numbers.
Futuresmagazine printed an article I wrote in the December 2002 issue
predicting that the week ending December 29 would be the date to expect

P-08_4218 2/24/04 2:41 PM Page 153
Fibonacci Numbers 153
a low to occur in the stock market. This article was written in the middle of
October to make the printing deadline. There was no turning back—after
all, who wants to be wrong in their predictions? Most analysts expected the
traditional “Santa Claus rally” prior to the holiday season. The fact of the
matter is that the market did make a low in the last week of December, as
the 11-week cycle projected (Figure 8.11), and the S&P 500 index pro-
ceeded to gain more than 50 points (nearly 600 points in the Dow)!
An interesting point regarding this 11-week cycle: 11 is not a Fibonacci
series number. However, it has Fibonacci connections, as previously noted.
A good point to raise now is that shorter-term cycles within the Fibonacci
framework do occur within longer-term cycles. The term referencing this
tie is called a harmonic timing event. Cycles do not react exactly the same
way. Not all moves will be proportionally equal. The charts with the 5-month
and 11-week cycles will certainly point this out.
So why study cycles and use the Fibonacci series or time counts? In this
case, they seem to have a bearing on when the equity markets rally. Once
again, following a repetitive trend or pattern is what a technician is after.
FIGURE 8.11 Eleven-week cycles in S&P 500 index. (Source:FutureSource.
Reprinted with permission.)

P-08_4218 2/24/04 2:41 PM Page 154
154 TECHNICAL INDICATORS: Confirming Evidence
Back to Fibonacci methods. One more study Leonardo is credited with
is the common retracementpercentage figures. They are rounded off at 0.38
percent, 0.50 percent, 0.618 percent, 0.786 percent, 1.272 percent, and 1.618
percent. These numbers are actual ratios within his Fibonacci series. For
example, 1 divided by 2 is 50 percent, 2 divided by 3 is 66 percent, 144 di-
vided by 233 is 0.618, 0.786 is the square root of 0.618, 1.00 subtracted from
0.618 equals –0.382.
The theory behind Fibonacci price retracements is that, when a market
makes an initial move from, say, a low to a high, it is normal for that market
to make some corrections with retracements of 0.382, 0.50, 0.618, or 0.786
of that upmove and to then continue the original trend. These calculations
are also good for establishing profit objectives, which are derived from a
sound and reasonable mathematical application. The cattle futures chart
provided as Figure 8.12 is a good example of a 50 percent correction in prices
from a longer-term perspective on a weekly chart. The 50 percent retrace-
ment target price (dashed line) was established from the high in February
near $71.00 to the low that was established in April at $59.92. The 50 percent
FIGURE 8.12 Fifty percent retracement in cattle. (Source:FutureSource. Reprinted
with permission.)

P-08_4218 2/24/04 2:41 PM Page 155
Fibonacci Numbers 155
calculation for the market to bounce back from the low provided a good
price objective for planning a trade.
There are many Fibonacci experts. One such expert in Fibonacci ratio
work is Joe DiNapoli of Coast Investment Software. DiNapoli was a guest
on the “Personal Investors Hour” on August 6, 2003, and described a tech-
nique using Fibonacci ratios to help calculate potential price moves by ex-
tending out the value of a move and applying the ratio numbers to that
figure. For example, let’s say that prices move 10 points from Point A to
Point B. The market makes a 50 percent retracement to Point C. Take the
value of the A–B move (10 points) times the Fibonacci numbers 0.618 per-
cent, 1.00 percent and 1.618 percent and then add the results to Point C to
give you price projections or possible resistance levels that the market may
test (Figure 8.13).
I have often used this method and find an uncanny coincidence with the
pivot point calculations. When that occurs, it absolutely gives me a stronger
reason to exit a position near that projected resistance and even gives me an
idea that a reversal of my position may be in order from that area.
Figure 8.14 shows an application of projected Fibonacci measurements
on a daily S&P futures chart. With a low at 957 (Point A) and a high at 1010
(Point B), the move was 53 points. The Point C low was 980. Multiplying 53
by the Fibonacci ratio of 0.618 and adding that number to the Point C low
produced a target of 1012.75. Adding a full 100 percent extension of 53
points to Point C resulted in a target of 1033.
Applying pivot point analysis was slightly more accurate in pinpointing
the high. Using the weekly target method, if you take the prior week’s
numbers—week ending September 5, 2003, when the high was 1028, the
low was 1003.50, and the market closed at 1020.2—and calculate the pivot
point formulas, you would have had 1030.97 for the R1 calculation and
1006.47 for the S1 calculation.
1.618%
100%
B
High
.618%
C
Low
A
Low
FIGURE 8.13 Projecting Fibonacci targets.

P-08_4218 2/24/04 2:41 PM Page 156
156 TECHNICAL INDICATORS: Confirming Evidence
Point A to B = 53 points 1030.8
53× .618 = 32.75 + 980 = Fib target of 1012.75
53× 1.00 = 53 + 980 = Fib target of 1033
53× 1.27 = 68 + 980 = Fib target of 1050
B
1010
980
C
957
A
FIGURE 8.14 Reaching Fibonacci and pivot point targets. (Source:FutureSource.
Reprinted with permission.)
The actual high was 1030.80. The last low before the chart was copied
was 1009. The margin of error was quite a bit smaller using the pivot point
numbers, but here was a phenomenal validating combination using the Fi-
bonacci and pivot point analysis methods together.
Another method for applying Fibonacci ratios is in calculating an ex-
tension of a price correction. Sometimes markets may go beyond the tradi-
tional 0.50 percent, 0.618 percent or 0.786 percent move. They can and do
retrace back 100 percent of a move. This action would be considered a
retest of the low or the formation of a double bottom. Sometimes you may
wonder why a market made a newer low, only to bounce back, and you
swear that it only made the new low to hunt for your stops. Fibonacci price
extensions can help solve that mystery. If you apply a Fibonacci ratio mul-
tiplier of 1.272 percent or 1.618 percent of the initial move, you can deter-
mine potential support beneath the market once it has taken out the initial
low (Figure 8.15).
Using Fibonacci price objectives is similar in theory to pivot point
analysis but does not have as detailed a mathematical equation. It deals
with a relative length of a move rather than the time constraints such as a
daily, weekly, or monthly range calculation that pivot point analysis needs.

P-08_4218 2/24/04 2:41 PM Page 157
Elliott Wave Theory 157
B
High
A
Low 1.272%
1.618%
2.618%
FIGURE 8.15 Fibonacci price support
extensions.
The difficult part about using the Fibonacci ratios is identifying the points
of peaks and troughs.
ELLIOTT WAVE THEORY
Ralph N. Elliott began to develop his theories and views that prices move in
waves in the 1920s. He identified impulse waves as those waves moving
with the main trend and corrective wavesas those waves going against the
main trend. Impulse waves have five primary price movements, and cor-
rective waves have three primary price moves (Figure 8.16).
Elliott presumably used some of Fibonacci’s work because of the way
he described a wave cycle in a series of 5 and 3 waves, both Fibonacci num-
bers. The fundamental concept behind Elliot’s theory is that bull markets
have a tendency to follow a basic five-wave advance, followed by a three-
wave decline. The exact opposite is true for bear markets.
5
B
3
A
1
C
4
2
FIGURE 8.16 Basic Elliott wave pattern.

P-08_4218 2/24/04 2:41 PM Page 158
158 TECHNICAL INDICATORS: Confirming Evidence
More experienced chartists, of course, might recognize that point five
could possibly be considered the number one point of a 1-2-3 formation or
the head of a head-and-shoulders formation. The one thing Elliott most
wanted chartists to recognize is that his wave theory worked on long-term
charts as well as intraday charts. A wave is a wave. Each wave contains
lesser-degree waves while at the same time being a subset of a higher-
degree wave.
Each wave has its own set of rules. Here are the basic ideas:
• The first wave is derived from the starting point and usually appears to
be a bounce from a previous trend.
• The second wave usually retraces the entire previous trend. This is what
technicians generally consider the makings of a W or M (1-2-3 pat-
terns), double tops or bottoms, or a head-and-shoulders chart pattern.
• The third wave is one of the most important. It is where you see the trend
confirmation occur. Technicians jump on the trend and place market
orders to enter a position from the breakout above the number one
wave. You usually see a large increase in volume and open interest at
that point. One rule that needs to be followed: For the third wave to be
a true wave, it cannot be the shortest of the five waves.
• The fourth wave is a corrective wave. It usually gives back some of the
advance from the third wave. You might see measuring chart patterns
such as triangles, pennants, or flags, which are continuation patterns
and generally break out in the same direction as the overall trend. The
most important rule to remember about the fourth wave is that the low
of the fourth wave can never overlap the top of the first wave.
• The fifth wave is usually still strong in the direction of the trend, but it
is also during this final phase that the price advance begins to slow.
From the rule of multiple techniques, indicators and oscillators such as
RSI and stochastics begin to show signs of being overbought or over-
sold and the market begins to lose momentum.
• Wave A is usually mistaken as a regular pullback in the trend, but this is
where you could possibly start seeing the makings of a W or M (1-2-3 pat-
terns), double tops or bottoms, or a head-and-shoulders chart pattern.
• Wave B is a small retracement back toward the high of wave five, but it
does not quite reach that point. This is where traders exit their position
or begin to position for a move in the opposite direction.
• Wave C confirms the end of the uptrend. When confirmation is made
by going beyond wave A, then another cycle begins in the opposite
direction.
Figure 8.17 shows an example of a bearish Elliott wave pattern. Using
trendline analysis to help uncover the waves, you can see how clear the pat-

P-08_4218 2/24/04 2:41 PM Page 159
Summary 159
Head
Shoulder
2
Shoulder
Neckline 4
1
The dashed line represents the neckline
from the head and shoulders pattern.
A
The Elliott wave pattern develops with the
bounce from point 1 and then a retest of 3
that old support line is established when the
neckline fails at point 4.
This seems complex, but if the market trades back
above points 1 and 4, this would be a nice confirmation
that another cycle will begin to the upside!
5
FIGURE 8.17 Elliott waves in trending channels. (Source:FutureSource. Reprinted
with permission.)
terns can become. In using the theory in practice, you would look for a re-
sumption of the uptrend to continue with a move above the neckline or the
dashed line where Points 1 and 4 intersect.
For further research on the theory of Elliott wave analysis, Elliott Wave
Principles by A. J. Frost and Robert Prechter would be helpful as would
any other writings by Prechter.
SUMMARY
With all the tools and techniques I have mentioned, you might almost feel
like a victim of information overload. That is true, but I believe it is helpful
to become familiar with the more popular techniques and get a feel for what
works for you, the individual investor. There are different types of technical
indicators for different types of market conditions and for different types
of traders.

P-08_4218 2/24/04 2:41 PM Page 160
160 TECHNICAL INDICATORS: Confirming Evidence
Moving averages will eat you alive in trading range markets. Oscillators
such as stochastics and the relative strength index will crush you in steadily
trending markets. So what is the best trading technique to use? The answer
is there is no perfect solution or holy grail.
One thing I do know is that I can’t jump around from one system to an-
other. If a system or method that has been consistent starts to fail and I aban-
don it and start to shop around for a new method, by the time I notice how
effective and accurate the new method is, that is about the time when it runs
cold. Stick to what works and when you run cold, take a break. Some of the
biggest and best players in the game have gone bust. Some have even run
years without a winning streak. What is important is that you can step back
and reevaluate what is going wrong. Sometimes you just need to paper trade
while you are retesting a system, method, or skills. Not only can paper trad-
ing help restore your confidence, but it also may keep your remaining work-
ing capital intact.
You can use these or many other tools or chart patterns to develop a
setup that informs you it is time to initiate a trade and execute a predeter-
mined trading plan. That plan includes setting target levels for risk and
profit objectives. Pattern recognition, whether it is candles or traditional
chart patterns, is a learned technique that does take time to study. The ben-
efit of pivot point analysis is that it is based on calculations and gives im-
mediate target price levels as does Fibonacci work. Moving average studies
do offer a convincing alternative for a verifying technical tool, and sto-
chastics can help determine the potential turn in trends.
These are what I personally look at when I am analyzing the markets on
a technical scope. I review what the pivot point analysis looks like on a daily,
weekly, and monthly basis. I look at the stochastic indicators beneath the ac-
tual bar charts and have an overlay of the 3-, 9-, and 18-period exponential
moving averages on each of those three time periods. I also include MACD
for short-, intermediate-, and long-term analysis. I examine bar charts and
candle charts for these three time periods and include these indicators along
with trend line analysis to help me in my price forecasting techniques.
Fibonacci is an easy tool as most software companies include the nor-
mal price correction ratios. It takes more specialized software to include the
features of projections and extensions. For futures traders, Gecko Software
provides an incredibly good graphic and detailed packaged product that in-
cludes many of the Fibonacci tools such as the arch, time count, retracement,
and extension tools a trader might want to explore.
These are a few of the favorite technical tools I use to supplement my
pivot point target numbers. They work for me. Maybe you will want to use
some or all of these techniques in your analysis as well.

P-09_4218 2/24/04 2:49 PM Page 161
CHAPTER 9
Market
Sentiment
What Traders
Are Thinking
A professional is one who does his best work when
he feels the least like working.
—Frank Lloyd Wright
W
right’s comment is a long-time favorite of mine because it applies
so well in the trading business. Trading demands discipline; it can
be emotionally draining, particularly if it is not your full-time job.
So we as traders or investors can fall into the trap of, “I don’t have time to
do my research so let’s see what others have to say.” If that has ever hap-
pened to you, then this chapter is for you. Finding out what “others have to
say” about the markets is a form of a getting a consensus of the market. Just
be careful to whom you are listening or whose advice you are following.
MARKET CONSENSUS AND CONTRARY OPINION
Because prices reflect the mass psychology of the marketplace, there always
seems to be a great deal of interest in finding out what the other traders are
doing. One means of getting this information is taking surveys or evaluating
newsletter opinions to measure the market’s sentiment or to find a market
consensus. The key is getting a true reading that accurately reflects the
sentiment.
In an uptrending bull market, a large portion of the market participants
are interested only in buying and will commit money for positions in the
market. If they become even more bullish and build up their positions, even-
tually they have no more resources to continue buying or no one may be left
161

P-09_4218 2/24/04 2:49 PM Page 162
162 MARKET SENTIMENT: What Traders Are Thinking
on the sidelines who wants to buy at the inflated price levels. When the mar-
ket is overcommitted on the long side, it is said to be overbought. The buying
pressure to move prices higher subsides, sometimes after a last-gasp blowoff,
and the market becomes vulnerable to a reversal. The same is true on the
downside if the bears become overcommitted and the market becomes over-
sold. The ebb and flow of trading will bring markets back to normal.
Imagine that a boat is loaded with people, and they are all on one side.
When enough people fall off as it begins to lean, the boat will flip to the other
side. Essentially that motion is what can happen in the markets. When the
first batch of bulls start to take profits, it may cause an avalanche effect and
result in a sharply lower price correction. The exact opposite is true for
bear markets.
MARKET VANE
If everyone is long or bullish, how can prices move higher? As mentioned in
the previous section, that conclusion is the exact theory of market consensus
or contrary opinion. A report called The Market Vane Bullish Consensus
(P.O. Box 90490, Pasadena, California 91109) ranks a market’s past histor-
ical level of bullish and bearish conditions against current conditions. This
ranking can be very helpful in discovering whether prices have reached a
climax top or whether there is more room to move higher. Earl Hadady, who
was the founder of the Market Vanereport, wrote a book titled Contrary
Opinionon the subject that can give you some insight on this concept and
market psychology.
Market Vanemeasures the market on a percentage ranking system based
on polling a certain number of analysts, assuming that these analysts will
influence a large number of people in making their trading decisions. The
ratings start with 0 percent as a measure of extreme bearishness and 100
percent as a measurement of extreme bullishness. If the number is closer to
the overbought figure of 100 percent, then the market is probably due for a
downward price correction. The opposite is true for bear markets when the
number is closer to 0 percent. Then prices could be susceptible to a price
reversal higher. For me, I look at the number when the percentage reaches
near 75 percent to 85 percent and a particular market has been trading in an
uptrend for a prolonged period of time.
COMMITMENTS OF TRADERS
One technique for gauging the consensus is to use the Commitments of
Traders(COT) report released weekly by the Commodity Futures Trading

P-09_4218 2/24/04 2:49 PM Page 163
Commitments of Traders 163
Commission (CFTC). This report reveals who is doing what in the futures
market or whose hands the market is in. Many investors who have traded
stocks and have never traded futures think of using the COT information as
being like insider trading. Well, not exactly.
The report breaks down the three main categories of traders and shows
their overall net positions. The first group is called commercialsorhedgers,
the next group is the large speculators(sometimes categorized as the com-
modity funds), and the third group is the small speculators. Commercials
and large traders tend to have large positions and, as a rule, whenever they
trade above a certain number of contracts, these positions need to be re-
ported to the CFTC. The number of allowable positions that needs to be re-
ported varies by different futures contracts. If you compile the data and
subtract these figures from the total open interest provided by the ex-
changes, then the balance is assumed to be from the small speculators. The
data are taken from the close of business on Tuesday and released the fol-
lowing Friday at 2:30 p.m. for futures only and also for futures combined
with options.
To understand the importance of the COT report, it helps to know the
breakdown of the numbers and what they represent. Commercials are con-
sidered to be hedgers and could be producers or users of a given product.
Because they will or do own the underlying product, they are trying to
hedge their risk against adverse price moves in the cash market. When a
commercial entity fills out its account application, it usually discloses that
it is hedging. The exchanges recognize that hedgers are on the other side of
the market from a cash standpoint and can usually support their futures po-
sition financially. Therefore, they set lower margin rates for those accounts.
Commercials are considered to be the so-called smart money or the
strong hands because they are in the business of that commodity. They are
supposed to have the inside scoop, so to speak. For example, by having ac-
cess to internal corporate inventory reports, global production estimates,
and projected customer needs, commercials have a better working knowl-
edge of the fundamentals. Banks and institutions may have a better idea
about the direction of money supply and corporate debt, for instance, and
may want to hedge their exposure on current holdings against an upcoming
adjustment in interest rates. For the most part, they are using the futures mar-
ket to lock in prices to produce a profit or to lower their costs on the cash
side of their positions.
The large traders category is considered to be the professional trader.
Commodity trading advisors or commodity pool operators who manage a
large fund are considered to be large traders if they hold a certain amount
of positions. An individual trader who holds a substantial position in the mar-
ket may also be classified as a large trader. Traders who have more con-
tracts than a designated amount need to disclose those positions to the

P-09_4218 2/24/04 2:49 PM Page 164
164 MARKET SENTIMENT: What Traders Are Thinking
CFTC. Each futures contract has a different number for its reportable lim-
its. Just like margin amounts, that number can change on a moment’s notice.
The theory is that if you are a large trader, you are committing a large
amount of capital to a risky investment and have confidence in that posi-
tion. You are either a very good trader who started small and built your
capital up, or you are a professional trader with a good track record. Either
way you look at it, professional traders with large reportable position lim-
its are still speculating in the markets with the motive for profit. They are
well-financed and typically have large amounts of money to defend their
positions.
The last group is the small traders or speculators. These are regular
investors, mainly members of the public trading on their own or using rec-
ommendations from an advisory newsletter service or a broker or a combi-
nation of all three. It is estimated that 80 percent or more of individual
traders who enter the markets lose, so this is the category that you gener-
ally do not want to follow.
A couple of old sayings may explain why the preceding is good advice:
“Even a blind squirrel can find an acorn sometimes” and “a broken clock is
always right twice a day.” Even the little guys win once in a while. I have
found that a lot of individual investors have a good knack for calling mar-
ket direction but have a hard time with timing when it comes to entering or
exiting the market. The problem is they are usually undercapitalized and
cannot defend their positions during periods of volatility.
One other difficulty is they sometimes refuse to take a profit when the
market gives it to them. Due to the very nature of the market’s moves, some
novice traders invest with a buy-and-hold mentality. For that reason the
sheer psychology and emotional makeup of individual investors needs to be
addressed before investing in the futures and options market. For some in-
vestors managing risk is not as hard as managing a winning trade.
There are many variables behind why the individual speculator is often
wrong in the markets and loses money. My concern here is that you realize
who represents what when it comes to the CFTC COT report. It is also im-
portant to understand and watch the behavior of the market from Tuesday
when the position reports are submitted to Friday’s close. This behavior can
change the interpretation of the numbers as the market participants have
had a chance to adjust their positions, making the report lose its importance
if market conditions have changed during that time period.
What you want to watch for in the COT report are the net positions for
each category. If you see a lopsided market position and prices are at an ex-
treme high or an extreme low, this condition could signal a major turnaround
in price direction.
Here is an example of a situation to watch. The large traders are net
long, the commercials are net short, and the small speculators are extremely

P-09_4218 2/24/04 2:49 PM Page 165
Media Attention 165
long from a historical perspective or account for a large percentage of the
open interest. To add to this scenario, the market is at an extreme high or
has been steadily rising for a good period of time. Look out! A downside
correction could be around the corner. Once the CFTC releases the data, it
is like trying to run ahead of an avalanche; everyone is headed for the exit
door and nobody wants to be last, at least from the large traders’ perspective.
If they see that the market is vulnerable to a price correction, all it takes is
a few smart traders to start liquidating long positions and a sharp sell-off
could result. It is important to review the COT report to see whose hands
control the market.
MEDIA ATTENTION
What we see on television or in the newspaper is a good indicator for me,
especially if the media is publicizing the market price level or reporting on
the fundamental developments with lots of attention. If the local nightly
news is reporting about a specific market situation when it would not nor-
mally discuss such topics, it gets my attention. This reporting usually tells
me that the facts are out and the market price has already factored in this
situation, which probably accounts for the old saying in this business, “Buy
the rumor and sell the fact.”
More than ever, the media is now involved in hype and showmanship.
It has a captive audience: you. The more viewers/readers that mass media
has, the more it can charge for advertising rates, its reward. It pays for the
media to embellish on the past and promote what I call “the gossip for the
game.” You need to learn how to filter out the gossip-for-the-game syndrome
versus acquiring a true market consensus.
It is a different situation when you listen to one person’s opinion and
follow that advice. It helps to know that person’s record of accomplishment.
If he or she is reasonably good, you may have more confidence as a trader
to put on a trade. But remember, verify, verify, verify. Listen, form an opin-
ion, check the fundamentals, verify that by looking at the charts, and then
verify that by looking at some technical indicators. This is a technique that
will help in your trading discipline and help filter out these opinions, which
can distract you from making good trading decisions.
If you look for one opinion after another as if you are searching for the
holy grail, then certain failure is probable. Another situation setting up for
failure is when you act or invest after hearing hype or a tip from a media
source. A great example of this is reading a financial paper that has a big
write-up on a market that had a spectacular market move. The story seems
to embellish how bullish or bearish the market conditions were. Then, when
you listen to the television commentators, they also mention this same

P-09_4218 2/24/04 2:49 PM Page 166
166 MARKET SENTIMENT: What Traders Are Thinking
market move. All of a sudden, market experts are coming out of the wood-
work talking about this particular market move. It seems everyone is an ex-
pert, and some inexperienced investors can’t help but fall for the trap.
There is truth in another old saying, “By the time it gets on the news,
the move is probably over” because it is most likely factored into the mar-
ket. In a bullish market, the buyers have already bought, and there are no
more new buyers coming in to play except those latecomers who buy the
top—generally the inexperienced trader or investor or broker who doesn’t
want to miss the opportunity. The simple laws of supply and demand dic-
tate that prices cannot sustain extreme levels for long.
During the 2000 Bush/Gore election campaign, I recall many television
financial stations interviewing so-called experts on how the markets would
react if Bush were elected. The debates went on and on. The general con-
sensus was that, if a Republican president were elected, it would be bullish
for stocks and bearish for bonds. We all know the outcome of the election,
but the outcome of the predictions certainly did not materialize. The point
is: Be careful what you believe when it comes to another person’s opinion
about price direction in the markets.
MARGIN RATE CHANGES
Some analysts believe another good sentiment indicator is watching changes
in the margin requirements that are set by the exchanges. I discussed the
importance of margin requirements and their function as a good-faith de-
posit or performance bond in the futures market in Chapter 1 and noted that
exchanges can change those requirements quickly. If you examine the rea-
sons behind the increase or decrease in margin requirements, you will learn
that it is a direct relationship to the expected amount of risk you may as-
sume in that market.
Some analysts believe that when the price behavior is bullish in a
steadily rising market and the exchange raises the margin, it may indicate
that the market is near a top and that a price correction is close. The reason
for this belief is that the higher prices move, the more vulnerable a price
correction would be for smaller investors who would need more trading
capital to afford such losses. So the idea is that if you want to enter a posi-
tion, then you would need more trading capital.
On the other side of the coin, if the market price of a futures contract is
at an extreme low, the exchange may lower the margin as it concludes the
risk factor is lower. The theory is that when the exchanges lower the mar-
gin requirements, it may signal that a market may be near a bottom as it en-
courages more traders to take more positions. Once again, this is strictly a
theory. However, I personally have seen several monumental market rever-

P-09_4218 2/24/04 2:49 PM Page 167
VIX 167
sals within days or a week after a margin rate increase and decrease, and I
do watch for margin changes.
PUT-TO-CALL RATIO
The put-to-call ratio theory is another method of measuring the market’s
sentiment. When trading options, it is important to form an opinion about
the underlying futures market price direction. Traders who are bullish may
choose to buy calls; traders who are bearish may choose to buy puts. In the
futures industry we can track the level of open interest and volume on the
strike prices for both puts and calls. If the majority of traders who buy op-
tions are bearish, then the put volume should increase and the level of calls
should stagnate or decrease. Analysts can, therefore, monitor the volume
of puts and calls to determine a level of bullishness or bearishness in the
marketplace.
The Chicago Board Options Exchange (CBOE) has been trading stock
options since the 1970s. It has a put-to-call ratio index based on volume fig-
ures from S&P 100 options, better known as the OEX. These figures are
published on the CBOE web site (www.cboe.com) and in Barron’sweekly
financial paper. The statistics use the volume of put options for xamount
of strike prices below the underlying market and then divide that number
byxamount of strike prices above the underlying market.
The figure or ratio calculation is then used to gauge the market’s senti-
ment. A figure that is increasing is considered to be indicating a bearish mar-
ket tone or a downtrending market, as evident from a higher volume of puts
than calls. A figure that is decreasing is considered to be indicating a bull-
ish market tone or an uptrending market, as evident from a higher volume
of calls than puts. An extremely high reading of the put-to-call indicator can
usually signal a market bottom or a price correction. An extremely low read-
ing of the put-to-call indicator can usually signal a market top or a price
correction.
This ratio is a popular indicator for those who track and trade the stock
indexes as well as for advisory services and those who publish financial
newsletters.
VIX
The volatility index, otherwise known as the VIX, is a relatively new indica-
tor that the CBOE introduced on January 19, 1993. It gained tremendous
popularity at the height of the stock market price boom in 1999–2000. The

P-09_4218 2/24/04 2:49 PM Page 168
168 MARKET SENTIMENT: What Traders Are Thinking
CBOE lists and tracks this indicator as a measure of the level of implied
volatility for stock index options. It is simply used as another measure of
the overall volatility of the U.S. equity markets or the amount of market tur-
moil that breeds fear. As a result, the VIX is sometimes known as the fear
indicator or the fear factor gauge.
The VIX was originally calculated by taking a weighted average of the
implied volatilities of eight S&P 100 index (OEX) calls and puts based on
the Black-Scholes option pricing model. These options normally have an
average time until expiration of 30 days, and the VIX is calculated and re-
ported on a minute-by-minute basis in real time.
The most widely used application of the VIX involves a reading between,
say, 24 to 20, a signal that volatility is low and suggesting there is compla-
cency in the market. This low reading generally occurs when the market is
at a high and is accepted as a sell signal. Moreover, if the stock market is
rising, the more confident investors are convinced that the trend will never
end. This condition is when the market is most vulnerable to a downturn or
correction.
Historically, readings below 20 are considered a red flag or a warning
signal to bulls, especially when the markets are in a rallying mode. Simply
put, a low VIX reading means that sellers of options prevail and are aggres-
sive and confident that the market will most likely not move. Buyers are not
interested in acquiring puts for protection against their core cash positions,
causing a decline in demand for options. In essence, the VIX acts like a con-
trarian indicator. When there is a consensus that the market won’t move or
that volatility will remain low, a believer in contrarian theory would con-
clude that the opposite would be true.
This observation brings up an important point: A rise in volatility could
be from price increases as well as decreases. This point is important be-
cause a low VIX reading does not always signal that prices will drop; prices
could rally and increase the volatility level. When prices of the stock market
were at extreme lows, the VIX was as high as 45 and even reached an intra-
day high of 56 in July 2002. Based on VIX theory, as the markets declined,
the volatility increased as did the fear in the market. This high reading was
construed as a buy signal, indicating that the downturn was nearly com-
plete. At the very least, it was another warning not to get bearish in the hole.
The CBOE overhauled this index and began using a new formula on
September 22, 2003. This new formula provides the market’s expectations of
volatility directly from index option prices rather than from the algorithm
that involved calculations of implied volatilities from the Black-Scholes op-
tion pricing model. The new VIX is calculated using options on the S&P 500
index and now uses a wide range of strike prices. The original VIX is now
called the VXO and uses implied volatility from an option pricing model. The

P-09_4218 2/24/04 2:49 PM Page 169
Summary 169
VXO will still be calculated and the information provided in real time on the
CBOE web site.
There is a slight difference in the way the two stack up. Using an annual
comparison basis, the old VIX (now the VXO) had a daily closing high in
2002 of 50.48 and a low that year of 19.25 while the new VIX put the high at
45.08 and the low at 17.40, according to CBOE officials.
The CBOE was scheduled to launch its first futures contract on this
newest derivative product in March 2004. As of December 4, 2003, the VIX
had hit a low of 15.77. According to theory this low reading may indicate
that volatility will rise, and traders can use the new VIX futures to start plac-
ing bets on the actual price of the index itself.
How useful will this instrument be for speculators or even for those
looking to manage risk? Time will tell, but I believe a good bet is that volatil-
ity will remain a constant in the stock markets. Maybe adding a volatility
component to a portfolio will work out to be a so-called sure thing. Of
course, remember the advice about something that sounds too good to be
true. It will be interesting to see how this market performs after the first
year in business.
SUMMARY
The COT report, Market Vane,the put-to-call ratio, or the VIX are all based
on the concept of finding a market consensus or measuring the market’s
sentiment to determine if prices have reached an extreme and are at or near
turning points. In other words, a trader uses these as a means to determine
a contrary opinion.
Market consensus is not something they usually teach you in an eco-
nomics class. The bottom line: When everyone is bullish, don’t join them.
Remember these sayings, too: “Buy low, sell high” and “Buy it when nobody
wants it, and sell it when everybody has got to have it.” These are sheer psy-
chological trading techniques that you can use to your advantage.

P-09_4218 2/24/04 2:49 PM Page 170

P-10_4218 4/26/04 3:32 PM Page 171
CHAPTER 10
Order
Placement
Executing the Plan
The price of success is hard work, dedication to
the job at hand and the determination that,
whether we win or lose, we have applied the best
of ourselves to the task at hand.
—Vincent Lombardi
L
ombardi’s comment sounds like a tall order to accept—that we have
applied the best of ourselves, especially when it comes time to learning
new methods and means for doing something. Executing orders and
online trading platforms can require a little hard work and discipline. Being
dependent on connectivity and a reliable Internet connection can be scary.
It is the outside unforeseen influences that we have no control over that can
disrupt any individual’s mental state and focus.
But framing the order you want to accomplish what you want is some-
thing over which you do have control, and it must be done carefully. Placing
orders is and will be an integral part of trading. Which orders are accepted,
when to use a stop to enter or exit a position, when and where to use order
cancels order orders—these are all questions for which you need answers
so you can put all the hard work from your analysis into action. The order
process is so important that I’m devoting a separate chapter to it.
ORDER ENTRY SELECTIONS
Understanding the mechanics of the market is an essential element of trad-
ing. Knowing which order to place is like having a specialty tool to get the
171

P-10_4218 4/26/04 3:32 PM Page 172
172 ORDER PLACEMENT: Executing the Plan
right job done. If you have ever played golf, you know there are different
clubs for different shots. I don’t think you would use a pitching wedge for
putting. Understanding market terminology is critical when entering orders
as well.
Let me put it this way. Some traders like using market orders to enter
a position and to liquidate the position. This order lets them know they are
either in or out of the market at all times. If that is all you need to know and
you are comfortable with it, then that is great. However, you must under-
stand that this approach requires nerves of steel, constant monitoring of the
market, or a bundle of cash to help fund those really bad days when the
market moves against you.
First things first. Every trader should be familiar with the more fre-
quently used terms and what you need to say in what sequence to place or-
ders correctly over the phone. There are about 14 different types of orders
you should know about, including what they do and in what market condi-
tions you should use them. This knowledge will help you in your judgment
of trading decisions and give you more wisdom about how to implement
them. One note: Different exchanges accept only certain types of orders and
under certain market conditions. Different rules apply with different ex-
changes and, like many things, these rules can change without notice. Con-
tact your broker for the current information on what orders you can use in
various markets.
Because the majority of the futures industry is now using the Internet
and Web-based technology to transmit orders, most traders are now moving
to online trading platforms for order entry. The main concern here is that
you make sure you read the computer screen carefully before clicking the
final “OK” on the enter order button. It can be as simple as checking whether
your screen says “Buy” or “Sell” or remembering not to double-click on the
“enter order now” icon so you enter the same order twice. Most platforms
do have safety features such as, “Is this the correct order? If so, click YES.”
If there is any single problem that makes many online traders nervous,
it is the connectivity issue. Will you have a connection to enter orders when
you need it most? Connectivity could involve links to your Internet service
providers or problems that may arise at the brokerage or exchange end.
Even the Globex terminals do go down at the Chicago Mercantile Exchange
(CME) once in a while. Some trading firms have an overload capacity on
their servers, and that can cause you to lose connections. In that case you
need to log off and then log back on—pretty straightforward but when you
clicked “enter,” was your order accepted? Are you in the market or not? If
you need to exit a position and the connection goes down, frustration and
panic can set in quickly. The solution is to work with a brokerage firm that
offers support and allows you to call in orders without a tremendous in-
crease in commission rates.

P-10_4218 4/26/04 3:32 PM Page 173
Order Entry Selections 173
The e-mini S&P contract is attracting traders from all backgrounds and
has become one of the favorite online trading contracts. The policies for the
CME’s Globex system as well as the latest information regarding system up-
dates and news events can be found at www.cme.com/globex. There have
been situations where erroneous orders have affected trading and elected
stops in the market due to “fat finger” issues (typing errors). For example,
rumors have it that a trader intended to sell 100 contracts and entered 10,000.
This mistake caused the order system to sell until all 10,000 contracts were
filled, and any stops that were under the market would subsequently be
filled. Some firms may not accept actual stop loss orders but hold orders on
their order desk if they are off the market by a large amount.
The point I am making is that the markets are reliable but not infallible.
To ensure the integrity of the marketplace, the CME has a “bust trade policy”
so that when and if these problems arise, it can reconcile differences.
Trades that would normally not have been filled may be taken off the
books. Ask a representative at your trading firm if it has this policy on hand.
Generally speaking, the markets change, thus driving the demand for policy
changes, so it is best to keep the link to your broker bookmarked on your
favorites list for easy access on the web.
Exchanges can and do have system outages. When a breakdown occurs,
you are exposed to market risk, which may leave you wondering what to do.
You could spread the risk off in a large open-outcry product or get to know
what market you can easily hedge it against. For example, the mini-sized
Dow trades about the same dollar amount as the e-mini S&P does. If the
Chicago Board of Trade system is operating and you are in a couple of e-mini
S&P contracts when Globex goes down, you could balance the risk by en-
tering the opposite side of the trade in a like product that has a fairly close
monetary value on a tick per tick basis. This situation, though rare, has hap-
pened, leaving traders at the CME with no access until the next day’s trad-
ing session while the problem was being repaired. If you trade actively, you
always need to have an emergency backup plan for every step of the trading
process. Smaller, less frequent traders may want to consult with a firm that
offers different trading platforms to determine whether the costs warrant
the access of such online order entry systems.
Some traders make it a point to deal directly with larger futures com-
mission merchant (FCM) clearing member firms instead of trading at the
smaller companies registered as introducing brokers (IBs) that clear
through an FCM. In some cases, traders at an IB can have advantages over
those at the FCMs. For example, independent IBs can utilize the best of one,
two, or more FCMs. The IB’s clients may get not only more personalized
services, but also better execution services from a selected FCM. Not so
long ago an FCM was purchased by another firm, and some clients could not
trade or close accounts until the books were transferred. If you happened to

P-10_4218 4/26/04 3:32 PM Page 174
174 ORDER PLACEMENT: Executing the Plan
be a client limited to that firm for handling your trades, you were not a
happy camper! An account with an independent IB may give you the flexi-
bility to continue to trade without being affected by regulatory red tape.
There will be certain times when order entry needs to be done over the
phone. For instance, if your power goes out or you wish to place a trade at
night or you want to trade markets other than electronic products or you
want to trade contracts for which you might need special permission, you
may have to call your broker.
No matter whether you trade online or on the phone, you need to know
market terminology and procedures you should follow. Before you place an
order to initiate a position in the market, you should have made a decision
about which direction you believe the market may move. If you are bullish,
you will want to go long the market, meaning you are speculating that the
price will go up. If you are bearish, you are speculating that the price direc-
tion will be down and would want to sell short. When offsetting a long posi-
tion, you need to sell that exact same contract to liquidate your position—a
September bond contract is not the same as a December bond contract or the
same as a September T-note contract. Offsetting makes you flatthe market
or out of a position. If you were short the market, you need to buy the same
contract to coveryour short position to make you flat the market.
Most brokerage firms have a certain format they want their customers
to use when they enter an order over the phone. The broker or order-taker
is filling in a ticket by hand or typing the order on the computer, so follow-
ing this standardized format is more likely to get your order executed cor-
rectly. Here is a common format:
1. Name.
2. Account number.
3. Clearly state, BUYorSELL.
4. Number of contracts.
5. Contract month (and perhaps year for distant contracts).
6. What contract (perhaps indicating exchange as well).
7. Type of order.
8. Price at which the order is to be activated (not necessary for market
orders).
9. Time duration of the order.
For example, when placing an order over the phone you would say: “Hi,
this is John Person, account number 12345. Buy four June T-bond futures at
the market.” If this were another type of order, you might have said, “Buy
four June T-bond futures at 112 stop, good until canceled.” Your broker will

P-10_4218 4/26/04 3:32 PM Page 175
Order Entry Selections 175
repeat the order, so listen carefully. Make sure what the broker repeats is
exactly what you said and intended. The broker or order clerk should con-
clude with something like, “Is this order correct?” If it is, you need to re-
spond, “Yes, it is,” or if you were not paying attention, ask to have the order
repeated again. When you are sure it is correct, the broker or order clerk
will give you a confirmation ticket number that refers to that order in case
any follow-up action is required.
Once the order is placed and executed, you are at risk for whatever hap-
pens. Errors that were made by placing orders over the phone usually occur
because one individual or the other was not paying attention.
One specific error that stands out for me involved a colleague of mine
who had a client who called to buy two U.S. bonds at the market. At the
time the broker had two phones. His client was on one ear, and he was plac-
ing the order to the floor with the phone in his other ear. Another broker sit-
ting near him made a derogatory remark because his voice was loud. Just
before the floor clerk repeated back the order as he heard it, my colleague
turned to the nearby broker to tell him not to interrupt, in so many words.
Just that split second of distraction cost my friend about $4,000. You see,
the floor clerk heard, “Buy ten at the market,” not “Buy two at the market.” It
was at that moment that Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan was
being quoted by the financial media, and the market nose-dived a half point.
Right as the fill was reported, my friend remembered hearing, “You paid even
for ten” (floor talk for you bought ten contracts at 106-00). He told the floor
clerk, “I think you got the wrong guy.” The floor clerk said, “No way! I heard
ten, I repeated buy ten, and you bought ten at 106 even.” With the market at
105-16, the loss was $500 per contract. My friend’s client wanted only two so
he had to eat the balance of eight contracts with a loss of $500 apiece.
Murphy’s Law is always at work, right when you least expect it. The rule
for errors is simple: Just cover them immediately. Don’t stay with errors.
They usually only get worse, and the cost increases against you. Figure out
who’s in the wrong later. By getting out of a mistake immediately, you reduce
the chance for the market to continue to move against you. My friend ar-
gued for another 20 or 30 seconds instead of taking care of the mistake im-
mediately, and it cost him, all because he did not pay attention and listen
when he should have.
In addition to verifying the accuracy of the order when you enter it, also
remember to listen carefully when the fill on the executed order is reported.
Did you get exactly what you wanted (allowing for slippage, of course)?
Errors cost money and, more often than not, you are the one who has to
pay.Getting into good habits from the beginning can help you in your trad-
ing career.
Entering orders online follows essentially the same steps, but no one is
there to catch errors you may make except you and your computer. The

P-10_4218 4/26/04 3:32 PM Page 176
176 ORDER PLACEMENT: Executing the Plan
order is reviewed at the brokerage firm, but if it has all the right elements,
it will be executed as you directed—no one will question, “Is that what you
really mean?” That’s why you must be very careful to review the order be-
fore you hit that final “enter” key. Sometimes if you modify an order, the
computer makes a change you don’t notice, like going back to a default for
buy when you intended to sell. Check and double check.
You also should be keeping track of all the details of your order on some
type of trading log such as the sample shown as Table 10.1.
MARKET CONDITIONS
In addition to order terminology and procedures, you also should be aware
of market conditions as your order may be handled differently in certain cir-
cumstances or certain orders will not be accepted at all at times. You don’t
have any input in ruling what market conditions are in effect. The exchange
determines that, but you need to understand the types of situations in
which you may be operating. If you are trading any market, it is important
to be aware of your trading surroundings and to know what the market con-
ditions are before placing orders to initiate or offset a position.
Normal Market Conditions
“Normal market conditions” describes the usual state as trades are occur-
ring at a normal pace and the price fluctuations are not in a wild erratic
state. There is a fluid market for buyers and sellers, and the competition for
bids and offers is flowing smoothly. Most orders that are entered should not
be delayed in execution, and fills should be reported back to you quickly.
Liquidity is fluid and there are plenty of bids and offers to make trades.
TABLE 10.1 Sample Trading Log
Buy/Sell Future/ Price or Ticket Time Fill
Date Cancel Quantity Month Option Strike Number Entered Price

P-10_4218 4/26/04 3:32 PM Page 177
Market Conditions 177
Fast Market Conditions
“Fast market conditions” describes a hectic and busy condition when or-
ders are coming in too quickly to be handled smoothly in a balanced mar-
ket and prices are usually very erratic. When the herd mentality takes over
in a down market, for example, more people are willing to sell at a certain
price level than there are people willing to buy. This imbalance creates com-
petition for any order to get filled first at specific price levels. Traders and
floor brokers can be frantic and overwhelmed by the sheer volume of in-
coming orders. They are trying to get orders executed at the best available
prices but are deluged by the heavy volume and can’t keep up.
Then several events take place: (1) Incoming orders are given prefer-
ence over reporting filled orders, primarily because the floor broker needs to
sign or endorse each filled order and doesn’t have time. (2) Because every-
one is working faster and at a heightened stress level, this is a time when er-
rors are more likely to occur. Exchange officials recognize this situation
and declare a “fast market.” (3) An “F” designating the fast market condi-
tion appears next to the last trade price on both the exchange floor quote
boards and most quote vendors’ screens. (4) The rules of trading officially
change at that point. Floor brokers are not held, meaning they are not re-
sponsible for bad fills, good fills, or filling your limit orders at all, even if the
price trades through your order. Obviously, you need to be aware of these
little rules before engaging in trading.
Limit Up
Not all futures markets have a “limit” provision, but this is the maximum
price the market may move up in a given trading day from the previous day’s
settlement price. Trading can occur at or below that price but not above it.
“Locked limit up” refers to a situation when there are no offers to sell at the
limit-up price, only bids to buy. If you are long the market, it is a good situa-
tion, of course. However, if you are short, it’s not good. You cannot cover
your short position by buying unless the market trades off the limit. To buy,
there has to be a seller. When there are no offers, that means no sellers are
present.
Limit Down
“Limit down” is the maximum price the market may move down in a given
trading day from the previous day’s settlement price. Trading can occur at
or above that price but not below it. “Locked limit down” refers to a condi-
tion when there are no bids at the limit down price, only offers to sell. If you

P-10_4218 4/26/04 3:32 PM Page 178
178 ORDER PLACEMENT: Executing the Plan
are short, you’ll like it. But if you are long, you won’t be able to liquidate
your position unless the market trades off the limit. To sell, there has to be
a buyer. When there are no bids, that means no buyers are present.
After-Hours Trading
Some markets trade electronically around the clock so there is no open-
outcry pit trading. E-mini S&P 500 futures, for example, do not trade on the
floor. Traditionally, the open-outcry session is considered the “day session”
or “regular trading hours,” and the after-hours session is considered to be
any time before or after that. For example, the floor session or day session
may be 8:30 a.m. to 3:15 p.m. Central time. Many futures markets now trade
almost 24 hours a day. For example, as of the end of January 2004, the
e-mini S&P session starts at 3:30 p.m., takes a maintenance break from
4:30 p.m. to 5:30 p.m., and then continues around the clock until 3:15 p.m.
the following day.
However, just because trading is available does not mean it is advisable
to trade in the middle of the night in the United States. Trading may be very
thin with wide price gaps between trades in the overnight session. You
want a liquid market where orders can be filled quickly and efficiently, and
you may have to limit your trading to the more active day session hours in
some markets, even if trading at 3 a.m. sounds interesting because you also
have a day job.
FOURTEEN ORDER CHOICES
The following list of order types gives you plenty of alternatives for entering
and exiting the market in a number of different ways. Read the descriptions
carefully to see if a particular type of order will achieve what you want.
Keep in mind that not all brokers and not all exchanges accept all orders.
Only a few types of orders may be allowed for some electronically traded
contracts—for example, you may not be able to enter open or good ’til can-
celed orders. Table 10.2 lists the types of orders that U.S. futures exchanges
will accept.
Market Orders
At the marketis a common order instructing the broker to buy or sell a spe-
cific quantity, contract month, and futures position at the next best avail-
able market price. That price could be better or worse than what you see on
your quote machine. The process is similar whether orders are executed in
an open-outcry pit on the floor of an exchange or an order-matching com-

P-10_4218 4/26/04 3:32 PM Page 179
Fourteen Order Choices 179
TABLE 10.2 Orders Accepted at U.S. Futures Exchanges
Exchange/ Stop
Market Limit Market MOC FOK Stop Limit SWL SCO SLCO MIT OCO
CME
All
products Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes** Yes
CBOT
All
products Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes No No No No No No
COMEX
All
products Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes No Yes MOC
NYMEX
All
products Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes No Yes Yes
NYBOT
Cotton Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes No Yes Yes
O.J. Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes No Yes* Yes
USD Index Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes* No Yes Yes
Coffee Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes No Yes Yes
Sugar Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes No Yes Yes
Cocoa Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes No Yes Yes
NYFE
products Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes No Yes MOC
KCBT
Value Line Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes* Yes Yes Yes Yes
Wheat Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes* Yes Yes Yes Yes
MOC = market on close; FOK = fill or kill; SWL = stop with limit; SCO = stop close only; SLCO = stop
limit close only; MIT = market if touched; OCO = order cancels order.
*not held; **no meats.
puter at an exchange. In layman’s terms it means, “Get me in or out of the
market right now at any price.” You use a market order to be sure your
order is executed as fast as possible in any market condition.
Market If Touched
Amarket if touched(MIT) order is specifically designed to turn into a market
order if prices trade at or through your specified price level. It could be filled
at that price or the next best available price that the floor broker can execute.

P-10_4218 4/26/04 3:32 PM Page 180
180 ORDER PLACEMENT: Executing the Plan
Market on Open
Market on open(MOO) is a market order that specifically means you want to
be filled in the opening range. A buy order is typically filled at the high of the
opening range, and a sell order at the low of the opening range. You usually
need to get this order to the floor at least 10 to 15 minutes before the market
opens to ensure that the filling floor broker has enough time to organize his
or her “deck” (the term that refers to all orders the broker is holding).
Market on Close
Market on close(MOC) is a market order that specifically means you want
to be filled in the closing range. A buy order is typically filled at the high of
the closing range and a sell order at the low of the closing range. You usu-
ally need to get this order to the floor at least 10 to 15 minutes before the
market closes to ensure that the filling floor broker has enough time to or-
ganize his or her deck and execute the order to those specific instructions.
Limit Orders
Limitorders have specific price instructions, requiring them to be filled at
the designated price or better. For example, if you enter a buy limit order,
it needs to be filled at or below that price and cannot be filled at a higher
price. In effect, you are saying you will pay xprice but no more. If you enter
a sell limit order, it needs to be filled at the specific price you designate or
higher. The fill cannot be at a lower price, but it could be higher than you
specified, depending on price action at the time.
These orders set specific prices where you want to enter or exit the
market. Generally, the market needs to trade through your price area to en-
sure a fill. If you absolutely must have a fill, you may want another type of
order as there is no guarantee that a limit order will be filled, even if your
designated price is touched. You should also be aware of the fact that floor
brokers are typically not held to execute these limit orders during the open-
ing and closing ranges. For example, if you placed a limit order before the
open to buy 10 contracts of March Corn at 2.18 and the low of the day was
2.17, you could expect to be filled on your order—unless it was in the open-
ing or closing range or in a fast market condition.
Stop Orders
Although they often are called stop-lossorders and are associated with get-
ting out of a losing position, a stopis an excellent order to use to either enter
a new position or get out of a current position. A buy stopis an order that

P-10_4218 4/26/04 3:32 PM Page 181
Fourteen Order Choices 181
is always placed above the current market price. If the market trades at or
above your specific price, it turns your stop order into a market order to buy
at the next best available price. A sell stopis an order that is always placed
below the current market price. If the market trades at or below your spe-
cific price, it turns your stop order into a market order to sell at the next best
available price.
A small detail should be noted here. Some exchanges rule that the mar-
ket does not need to actually trade at your price. Rather, a bid at or above
a buy stop can elect your order, and an offer to sell at or below your sell
stop can elect your order. That factor may not mean much to you now, but
when your sell stop gets elected and is the low of the day or your buy stop
is filled at the high of the day, it will. Check regularly with your broker for
current rules and specific market conditions of each exchange and the
products that you wish to trade.
When a stop order is used as a stop-loss to get you out of a position, it
is often a mechanical order to get you out of the market if a certain target
price is hit. There are no guarantees that this type of order will get you out
of the market, mainly due to certain market conditions, and there are no
guarantees that you will be filled at the price you specify in your order. The
market could reach your price, activating your order, but the next price
available might be some distance away—a phenomenon known as slippage,
which you must expect in your trading. A stop order in a fast market or a
limit-down period or in thin overnight trading especially may or may not be
filled at a good price or filled at all.
Under normal market conditions this is still a good tool and you should
be in the habit of using stops for risk management purposes. Trailing stops
usually refers to moving the price of your stop order up or down as the mar-
ket moves in your favor and you want to lock in a profit or reduce a loss.
Entering a market position using a stop is effective when trading tech-
nical chart points. If prices appear to be in a channel and you only want to
buy if the market trades above a resistance point, then you might place a
buy stop above that area to enter a long position if the market moves that
high. In other words, you are waiting until the market proves that it may go
higher by surpassing a certain price or chart point.
Of course, the opposite is true for a sell stop. If you only want to sell
once the market price trades below a support point, you would place a sell
stop below that area to enter a short position, waiting until the market proves
that it may go lower by surpassing a certain price or chart point.
Stop Close Only
Stop close onlystop orders are elected only if prices in the final closing range
(usually the final minute of trading) are below your sell stop or above your

P-10_4218 4/26/04 3:32 PM Page 182
182 ORDER PLACEMENT: Executing the Plan
buy stop. This is a specific order that some traders use to make the market
prove they are wrong when exiting a trade. It can also be used for entering
a trade if the market is closing above or below a certain point. It can be a
dangerous order financially as the market could move significantly above
or below the intended price level on the close.
Stop Limit
Stop limit(SL) is a two-tiered price order generally used to limit slippage.
The first part of the order is the stop price level; the second is the limit price
level where you are willing to allow the filling floor broker to execute your
order. The danger here is that the order may not get executed at all if the
momentum of the market is severe and the price moves dramatically be-
yond your limit order level.
Straight Cancels
Thecancelorder is a simple command to remove your order from working
in the marketplace. I mentioned earlier that, when you place an order, the
order is repeated back to you and you get an order ticket number. This order
number is used as a reference when you want your broker to just scratch
your existing order if it has not been filled already. Sometimes the process
of reporting fills can be delayed. When you use a straight cancel order and
your order has been filled, you will get a report back that says, “order filled,
too late to cancel.”
One point here: Never assume that your order was cancelled and is out
of the market, and do not cancel an order to see if you can get a quicker fill
report—you may get what you ask for. By canceling an order that may be
due a fill, the last command usually will hold up and the filling floor broker
will be off the hook for making any adjustments from orders that may be
due a fill. In volatile market conditions if you intentionally want to remove
your order and you want confirmation as soon as possible that you are out,
then you need to ask for a “cancel and confirm” that the order is dead, out
of the market, and not working. You will get a call back with either a “too
late to cancel” message, meaning that your order was filled, or a confirma-
tion that your order is out of the market.
Cancel, Replace
If you want to change the quantity of your order from, say, 10 contracts to
only 5 or if you want to change your limit price order to a different price
level or change it to a market order, you want to do a cancel replaceorder.
This order would ensure that you do not get a double fill from canceling one

P-10_4218 4/26/04 3:32 PM Page 183
Fourteen Order Choices 183
order and placing a new order without confirmation that the original order
is out of the market. One aspect that cannot be changed is the contract
month. That type of change would need to have the old order straight can-
celed and confirmed out and then a new order entered once you receive
confirmation.
Order Cancels Order or One Cancels Other
Bracket trading or profit and loss parameters can be established all on
oneticket with this order. An order cancels orderorone cancels other(OCO)
may involve two orders with one goal—getting into or out of the market,
whichever order is executed first. Say you enter a long position and want to
liquidate it at a specific limit price above the current price level to take a
profit. At the same time you are working a stop-loss order below the cur-
rent price level in case prices decline. The OCO will automatically cancel
one order if the other is filled.
One problem with OCO is that only some exchanges accept this order
and under certain market conditions. Check with your broker for current
rules of each exchange on the conditions of accepting this type of order and
for each product being traded at that particular exchange.
Fill or Kill
A fill or kill (FOK) is a “let me know right now” kind of an order. If you
want to buy or sell a specific quantity at a specific price and know the re-
sults immediately, you might use an FOK order. When this order gets into
the floor filling brokers hand, it needs to be filled or canceled and the re-
sults reported back immediately. If it is not filled, it is a dead order, and a
new order would need to be placed.
Open Orders, Good ’til Canceled
As a matter of clarification first, when you place an order, it is always auto-
matically assumed to be a day order. That assumption is a universal under-
standing in trading. If your order is not filled at the end of the day, it is
canceled and considered a dead order. A new one would need to be reen-
tered the next day.
The purpose for an open orderorgood ’til canceled(GTC) is that it re-
mains working for the life of the contract or until you cancel it or it is filled.
An open order or GTC is usually placed as a limit or stop order. Under most
circumstances you can cancel and replace the order in situations where
you would trail your stop or move a limit order. Make sure that you state
that you wish to continue using a GTC with the replacing new order.

P-10_4218 4/26/04 3:32 PM Page 184
184 ORDER PLACEMENT: Executing the Plan
The procedure that most firms utilize is to first identify yourself and
state your account number. Next instruct your broker that you have an open
order that you need to cancel/replace and give him or her the order number.
That way they can access your information from the list of working GTCs
or pull your information off the computer screen, saving valuable time by
allowing the broker to process your request as soon as possible.
Remember, always make sure you communicate your intentions clearly.
Errors do happen when traders forget they have placed open orders. The
most common example is when you enter a position and use an open order
(or GTC) as a stop loss. You may see an opportunity to exit the position and
use a market order to do so. Unless you cancel your GTC order, it is still
working. As time passes, this order could come back to haunt you as you
may get a fill when you do not want to be in the market.
Checking your open orders once a week is a good practice for active
traders to get into. Reviewing working orders online is another method you
can use to avoid the error that happens with open orders—checking your
account status is just one click away.
Spread Orders
Commonly referred to as the purchase and sale of the same or similar in-
struments in different months simultaneously, spreadshave their own trad-
ing patterns and conventions and require experience to become familiar
with them. Some New York market traders refer to spreads as a switchor
straddleorder.
The concept of a spread is to buy and sell the same or related product,
different products, different months, different exchanges, or some combi-
nation of all of these. The goal is to profit from the difference in the price
movements of the two sides.
The two sides of a spread order, the buy side and the sell side, are usu-
ally called legs. You can enter a spread one side at a time, called legginginto
a spread;you can enter both positions with market orders; or you can enter
a limit order specifying the exact price difference between the two sides.
Common examples of spreads include the S&P 500 and Nasdaq, gold and
silver, Chicago wheat versus Kansas City wheat, July soybeans versus No-
vember soybeans (new crop/old crop spread) and cattle versus hogs. The list
goes on and on.
Exchanges recognize a number of spreads, generally offering reduced
margin requirements. For example, the historic Chicago Board of Trade-
Chicago Mercantile Exchange common clearing link that became fully
operational on January 2, 2004, cleared the way for substantially lower
margin requirements and more effective clearing procedures for spread
trades involving e-mini S&P and mini-sized Dow futures, an outstanding

P-10_4218 4/26/04 3:32 PM Page 185
Fourteen Order Choices 185
benefit for retail traders. Usually the same futures contract that is traded
in different delivery months has substantially reduced margins, based on the
idea that all contracts for a given market will tend to move together. Some
spreads are not recognized and do not get a break on margin rates. Check
with your broker for the list of intermarket and intramarket spreads that
are recognized by the exchanges.
A common misconception is that a spread is not as risky as trading an
outright single position. The fact is that spreads can sometimes be just as
risky, if not riskier, because the trader is in two separate positions.
Typically a spread trader is trying to profit from the strengthening or
weakening of the price difference between the buy side and the sell side.
Another reason for spreading is that a trader may be entering a new con-
tract month and closing out an old position that is approaching delivery or
expiration. This shift to a new month can be done on the same order ticket
at the same time, a process called rolling overyour position.
Another reason for spreading is to spread offa current position to re-
duce risk exposure or to defend a position to avoid a margin call. For ex-
ample, a trader who is long one December S&P 500 futures may want to sell
one March S&P 500 futures against it to provide cover over the weekend.
Then the trader can lift one side of the spread or leg out of the short March
futures side Monday morning. This action would, in effect, make the trader
net long one position.
Whether placing a spread order by phone or online, its order form looks
a little different than just a straight buy or sell. Start off by telling your bro-
ker that you want to place a spread order so he or she can prepare the right
ticket or punch up the right computer screen. In addition, specify if it is an
open order as well.
Start with the buy side first, giving the quantity, contract month, and the
market. Then give the same type of information for the sell side, the quan-
tity (which usually should match the quantity as the buy side), the contract
month, and the futures contract. Then, if it is a limit order, indicate what the
price difference should be or say that it is a market order.
If you do not have an equal amount on the buy side and sell side, then
it would not be a true spread order and might not qualify for lower margin
rates. You may have a reason for an imbalance if you are rolling out of one
contract month into another and want more or less positions. For example,
if you are long five December euro contracts and want to have only three
when you roll into the March contract, you would buy three March and sell
five December all on one ticket and most likely at the market.
Again, you need to check with your broker to see if the floor filling bro-
ker will accept a specialty order such as that in the first place. It is better to
ask questions than to place the order and find out later that it did not go
through. I have known brokers who have placed orders for clients, only to

P-10_4218 4/26/04 3:32 PM Page 186
186 ORDER PLACEMENT: Executing the Plan
learn that the floor would not accept the order due to a change in market
conditions, or it may have been rejected as a bad order and not reported
back at all. Then, when the broker calls the client, the broker finds out the
client has left for the day or is out of reach, thinking they were in a position
when they were not.
Never assume. Always ask questions when placing any order that might
be a little different and check in with your broker from time to time when
you are working a special order.
SUMMARY
Order entry procedures can be as important as determining and analyzing
the market direction itself. Imagine being right in predicting the market
move but not being able to participate because you were not filled on your
order. Worse yet, maybe you entered a stop order to enter a position using
a breakout method instead of a stop limit order and the resulting slippage
caused a loss instead of a potential profit. The combinations for errors are
too great to mention.
Although online order entry is becoming increasingly popular, novice
or new investors in the futures market should consider the benefits of hav-
ing a licensed, full-service broker accepting their orders. For one, they usu-
ally are familiar with the investor’s account, different trading philosophies
and strategies, and the trading terms and phrases taught in different trading
courses. For another, full-service brokers can give investment advice, and
they usually have experience to help catch common mistakes that could cost
an inexperienced investor thousands of dollars. In fact, they can be a fine
mentor in the initial stages of a trading career.
I would also recommend interviewing brokers. Think of a broker as an
employee. If you think about it, they really are working for you! Ask ques-
tions about how long they have been in the industry, what would make them
want to help you, and how they would help. Ask if they provide specialty
services such as faxing or e-mailing charts or preparing special market re-
ports. You may want to find out if they offer a hotline recording or an online
voice-activated chat room for market analysis. Most important, tell them
what you need and what you want them to provide for you. Most experienced
full-service brokers accept discount clients even though they may be expe-
rienced and proficient traders on their own. Brokers will be there for you
and may be able to respond quickly to answer any questions or concerns you
may have. Even the great Tiger Woods has a coach. Why wouldn’t you want
one on your side?
If you want to place your own orders, that’s fine. Many traders do. Just
remember that unlicensed phone clerks are generally prohibited from giv-

P-10_4218 4/26/04 3:32 PM Page 187
Summary 187
ing clients investment advice and special services. They usually do not have
the experience that a broker has, and they may not have passed the Series
Three exam. Registered brokers are licensed by the National Futures Asso-
ciation and are regulated by the government. They even submit themselves
to taking ethics exams and attending refresher courses and seminars. Clerks
generally just take your order, even if they realize you are making an error.
Online order entry can be a valuable tool. However, it is not foolproof,
especially if your local Internet service provider is busy or down or you have
other connectivity problems. Placing orders online as an inexperienced
trader may not be the answer. If you are comfortable with it, great. Just make
sure you have a backup plan and accessibility to an experienced broker
who will work for you.
Know the rules of the game, and use the tools you have to do the job
right. Weigh the benefits of using an experienced broker versus a discount
order clerk or placing orders from an online platform by yourself. Also re-
member to be organized, write down your activity, and listen to what your
broker repeats back to you with your order ticket number. Or, if you are
trading online, read what you are entering and be careful not to double-
click when entering your orders. These seem like simple steps, but they re-
quire discipline, commitment, and a strong arm. I say that because to write
a trade log requires lifting that 400-pound pencil or pen. Get in the habit of
taking an inventory of your performance, whether it is good or bad. That way,
you can try to replicate what went right and learn from what went wrong.

P-10_4218 4/26/04 3:32 PM Page 188

P-11_4218 4/26/04 3:33 PM Page 189
CHAPTER 11
The Mental
Game
Inside the Trader
Nothing can stop the man with the right mental
attitude from achieving his goal; nothing on earth
can help the man with the wrong mental attitude.
—Thomas Jefferson
T
o succeed as a trader, you have to get your conscious and subcon-
science mind working for you. You must have a winning attitude,
which can be achieved by surrounding yourself with positive events
and introducing yourself to self-motivating or positive attitude tapes or
books. This chapter is devoted to helping you identify problem thinking and
develop an optimistic way of thinking. I not only want to help teach you
methods that may improve your awareness of solid discipline and confi-
dence, but also to help you conquer your fears by presenting examples of
how traders can correct or monitor themselves when times get tough.
In my experience, successful traders seem to possess the uncanny abil-
ity to correctly anticipate the needs and trends of the marketplace. Some
call such ability an inherent feel for the market. Even better, they have the
ability to act swiftly and execute a trading plan. I believe that these are tal-
ents that you develop and are not born with. Successful traders were, are,
and always will be students of the markets. They are achievers who continu-
ously study, in perceptive detail, people’s actions, the processes of events,
and the products in the markets they trade. When they place a trade, it is an
educated decision, not merely a guess, and they know it. That knowledge
gives them the confidence to execute and act on trading decisions.
Confidence or thoroughly believing in yourself may come naturally
or from the secure feeling you had when growing up. It may have been
189

P-11_4218 4/26/04 3:33 PM Page 190
190 THE MENTAL GAME: Inside the Trader
developed from achieving success from previous experiences or in being
successful in some other aspects of your life. Other ways to gain confidence
in yourself might have come from overcoming an obstacle or having a suc-
cessful experience in conquering some adversity in life. You consciously
know that you have achieved or overcome challenges and can succeed due
to a past experience. Building confidence in yourself and in your trading
skills is extremely important in stimulating an optimistic winning attitude.
The other common feature that successful traders seem to have is they
are not afraid to be wrong. They realize that anticipating a market move will
always include an element of risk. They act, not react, to market conditions.
This means they place orders before the market moves rather than wait
until after the market reacts to a situation or event. In my experience, those
who hesitate or wait or are not prepared seem to have the most trouble cap-
turing the element of success when it comes to trading futures.
This chapter really describes the common emotional weaknesses for
most unsuccessful traders. I illustrate how this negative mental attitude de-
velops and offer methods that can help solve the problem if you experience
losses and are a victim of these symptoms. Think of this as the problem-
solving chapter. At first it might seem like negative thinking, but if you don’t
examine your troubles and face your fears head on, you will not be able to
become an effective problem solver.
WHO ARE YOU?
The first step to improving your trading results requires the ability to ex-
amine your actions and do a thorough, honest self-evaluation. Let’s call it
taking an inventory of your actions and how you react emotionally to a sit-
uation because, after all, you are the most important part of the trading equa-
tion. When I interviewed Mark Douglas, author of The Disciplined Trader
and Trading in the Zone, on my radio program, he offered the idea that
every outcome of a trade decision based on a technical chart pattern is a
random act. It is not a 100 percent guarantee that a chart pattern that resem-
bles a bull flag will extend higher every single time. The problem is not the
chart or the market but the actor, Douglas contended.
In my career as a broker, I have found one popular phrase that often
leads investors down the road to the poorhouse, either from actual monetary
losses or from missed opportunities. I heard it from all different types of
people. It did not matter what gender they were or what part of the country
they were from. The fact is a lot of people used it. The phrase was:
“I’ll think about it.”

P-11_4218 4/26/04 3:33 PM Page 191
Who Are You? 191
A trader needs to take action rather than wait and see and then react to
the market. As a trader, you need to be quick. A sudden brain spasm spawned
by fear, doubt, or greed will most likely not bring consistently good results.
Hesitation is a trader’s enemy. That is the message in the guideline, “Plan
your trade, and then trade your plan.”
Let me give you a few examples of when “I’ll think about it”happens.
An investor identifies a trade opportunity and looks to buy near a signifi-
cant support level if prices decline to the planned entry area. The trader es-
tablishes a risk factor based on a monetary loss or on a technical violation
of a support level. Things are pretty good so far, as it seems the trader has
done the necessary homework. Now comes the time to place the trade. Ah,
“I’ll think about it”pops into mind, and the trade is never entered. What hap-
pened? A lack of confidence in analytical ability, self-doubt that the trade
will work, or fear that the trader’s pride will be hurt if the trade prediction
does not work? Maybe the trader is afraid of losing money or if the trade is
a loser, a humiliating experience.
So the trader decides to wait a day or two to just watch the market. You
know that if the trade had worked out as planned, the four famous words
“I’ll think about it” would be forgotten. What fearful traders do think and
say is, “I should have done that” or “I knew that was going to be a winner”
or, better yet, “ Boy, I don’t know what got into me. That would have been a
great trade.”
Remember the “plan your trade, trade your plan” axiom? Even if a trade
does not work out, isn’t it better to take a risk and fail than to never take a
risk at all? After all, not every trade will be a winner. That is why you are—
or should be—using risk capital when trading. Hopefully, applying the P3T
signal method of trade setups may help give you the confidence you need.
Another great example of “I’ll think about it”is when a trader has a long
position in the market and has a small or respectable profit built in the trade.
The market condition may be changing. For example, supply or demand fac-
tors or an upcoming fundamental event such as a government report may
cause the upward momentum of the price advance to stop. The trader is
looking for even more money out of the trade. Maybe the trader is breaking
even or has a small profit. Deep down, the trader knows the trade is not
working and the position should be exited. Then “I’ll think about it”enters
the picture.
This is where I have seen traders and clients turn large, small, or no prof-
its into substantial losses. Sometimes this business is not about the risks we
take for each trade that needs to be managed as much as it is what we do
with the profits we have in a trade. A profit is only a profit when you exit a
position. Until a position is offset, it is only a paper profit. Emotions such
as greed or complacency can be disastrous. They can keep you in a trade
longer than the market invited you to hang around.

P-11_4218 4/26/04 3:33 PM Page 192
192 THE MENTAL GAME: Inside the Trader
If you took a poll of investors, floor traders, brokers, and retail cus-
tomers and asked them, “What does it take to be a successful trader?” what
do you think the answer would be? Timing. Pure and simple, timing. Timing
your trade entries and exits. So do your homework, plan your trade, and ex-
ecute that plan by entering your orders. If the trade does not work out, ex-
amine what the results were so you can learn from the experience.
Here’s a trading thought to share with you: “It’s okay to lose your shirt
in this business, just don’t lose your pants because that is where your wallet
is.” In other words, it is okay to lose, but don’t lose everything because then
you have no equity to come back with. Losses need to be minimized and ex-
amined. Study what went wrong and use your findings as experience for the
next trade.
As Jesse Livermore and other famous traders have observed, you are
out of the game if your stake is gone. Don’t lose it all in one shot. That is
where money management techniques can prove to be vital for your survival
in this game. That applies to both losers and winners. Profits need to be
taken. If you believe in managing risks, you need to manage profits, too, be-
cause the markets giveth and they definitely taketh away.
GETTING IN TOUCH WITH REALITY
One question that new investors ask me a lot is, “Why do I do better at
paper trading than I do when I trade with real money?” The answer is easy.
Fear, doubt, complacency, greed, anxiety, excitement, and false pride can
all interfere with rational and intellectual thoughts. When dealing with real
money, you are faced with the realization that you and your money can ac-
tually be separated.
It is a sad feeling to lose a bunch of Ben Franklins quickly. (It’s more
like depressing!) When you are paper trading, you know that your winnings
are fictitious so you let them ride. However, when it comes to real dollar
trading and you have a $2,000 or $3,000 winner in a short period of time, it
is extremely hard not to look at your account balance and then call your
broker or get online and say, “Get me out!” So when you get out and a week
or so later the same position turns into what could have been a $20,000 or
$30,000 winner, I don’t know how a human being cannot say, “I should have
stayed in!”
Try not to get into the buyer’s remorse syndrome. That’s when you buy
a specific product and are still price shopping six months later to make ab-
solutely sure that you got the best deal in town. That is another situation
that creates negative emotions and you need to guard against it. Most traders
know the saying, “Any profit is a good profit, no matter how small.” It is

P-11_4218 4/26/04 3:33 PM Page 193
Getting in Touch with Reality 193
hard not to look back, but you always have to think positive and be grate-
ful that you picked the right market and did make some money. You should
also feel confident and comfortable knowing that your system, method, or
skills may allow you the opportunity to do it again. Hindsight trading is
easy; being a mature, professional, and optimistic trader is hard.
Fear can cause paralysis and lead to inaction. “When in doubt, get out!”
These are five famous words to remember. Do not vacillate or contemplate
a decision to get out of a position in the market. Just do it! When the mar-
kets are acting differently than what you would expect or when the informa-
tion you are analyzing and the trading signals you are getting are confusing,
it is important to reevaluate your trade or position.
For you golfers, maybe it’s like losing your swing one day after being
able to hit like Ben Hogan the day before. It is confusing and frustrating be-
cause you know you can hit the ball correctly. You just did it yesterday. So
you take some practice swings to try to get your motion or swing back. As
a trader, if you are not sure about the price behavior or the way the market
is acting, then simply get out of your position. Take a look at the market
from a distance on the sidelines. Some investors like to watch and wait; oth-
ers will hope things change. The better or more experienced trader will sim-
ply get out. Sometimes this simple approach will save you from losses and
give you a better time to reenter the market.
Maybe you can identify with problems such as “Greed and the undisci-
plined trader” or “I’m-scared-so-I’ll-think-about-it trader.” I associate greed
with the trader or investor who desperately wants to trade to make a quick
buck. This type of trader personality profile is certain to realize failure when
trading. Such traders have no discipline, acting on any rumor, story, or so-
called hot tip. They are checking research web sites and jumping from one
source to another to search for the winning trade. There is a common de-
nominator with this type of investor: They constantly do the same thing
over and over and over again, generally resulting in losses.
There is an old definition for insanity: repeating the same actions and ex-
pecting a different outcome each time. I’m not talking about the casual trader
who asks his broker, “What’s new today?” I am referring to the investor who
has traded at different firms and jumps around and loses each time.
Even worse are those investors who do not even follow their own ad-
vice or research. In the brokerage business we call them screen “watchers”—
those who stare at a computer and analyze the market without putting their
thoughts and analysis into action. They always have an opinion and think of
themselves as experts. These kinds of traders may be brilliant market ana-
lyzers but lack the emotional or financial resources to carry out their
thoughts and put them into action to achieve the desired results, a winning
trade. Life is too short to fall into that trap. There are better ways to spend

P-11_4218 4/26/04 3:33 PM Page 194
194 THE MENTAL GAME: Inside the Trader
your time and achieve nothing in return for your efforts. Trading requires
hard work, effort, and time. If I am investing my time in a project or a job, I
want to get paid for it.
GETTING DOWN TO BUSINESS
Trading should be considered a business. Treat it as such. Here is a sugges-
tion: Work with one market and become a specialist in that market. Once
you have achieved that, then move to another product until you have maybe
10 or more markets that you are comfortable trading.
Here is another suggestion: Start a trading worksheet. You can do
this by hand or by computer. Figure 11.1 shows how I set up a daily work-
sheet. As the age of computers has evolved, many different software pro-
grams have been developed. If you want to start a worksheet by
computer, getting started is easy. All you need is the raw data. To get the
information, you may use several sources. One is the newspaper, another
is the brokerage firm’s web site, another is subscribing to a quote service
that provides analytical software. But remember the saying, “You get
what you pay for.” Software can be inexpensive or even free. Other soft-
ware vendors can be very expensive. Most trading firms will place on
their web sites needed information such as charts and price quotes as
well as technical studies. Some will provide market commentaries or even
information such as daily, weekly, and monthly support and resis-
tance numbers to their clients. I do it and continue to offer it to clients
free of charge.
What you really want to accomplish is gathering information for a daily
worksheet and taking the time to fill it out. This practice forces you to make
a quick study of the market and get into the habit of a daily routine. Consider
it like a daily investment diary. All you have to do is fill in the blanks. You can
make up your own field requirements, or you can use the ones shown in Fig-
ure 11.1 A daily worksheet will not guarantee that you will have profitable
trades, but it will get you to do your homework and get you into a disciplined
trading preparation sequence.
Fill in the data. Form an opinion based on technical information. Out-
line a trade. Establish a risk factor. Determine a profit objective. Make a
reasonable trade based on specific facts and tangible data. You do not have
to base your trade on emotions or a feeling. If you lose, then at least it was
a calculated loss. If the trade turns out to be a winner, it is a very satisfying
feeling of accomplishment, not to mention putting a profit into your trading
account. Either winning or losing, keeping a worksheet helps you track the
process and allows you to review the results any time.

P-11_4218 4/26/04 3:33 PM Page 195
Getting Down to Business 195
TRADE WORKSHEET
Trade Date 06/19/01
Commodity Bonds 30 year
Margin 2,025 initial
Tick value 31.25
Yesterday high 10112⁄
32
Yesterday low 10027⁄
32
Yesterday close 10102⁄
32
Last week’s high 10201⁄
32
Last week’s low 10004⁄
32
Last week’s close 10103⁄
32
Five-day trend direction down
Stochastic reading (daily) %K = 66 %D = 75
Relative strength index 53
3-day moving average 1012⁄
32
9-day moving average 10031⁄
32
18-day moving average 10019⁄
32
Pivot point 1013⁄ Buy/sell: Buy at 10018⁄
32 32
Support 1 10026⁄ Stop loss: Sell at 10008⁄
32 32
stop
Resistance 1 10111⁄ Profit objective: Sell at
32
10110⁄
32
Support 2 10018⁄ Results: Winner! High of
32
day was 10110⁄
32
Resistance 2 10120⁄ Contingencies: Once one
32
side is filled, cancel other
Notes:Market has been down for five days; technicals are showing an oversold market condition. Look to
buy near Support 2 since the primary support is projected to be lower than the previous day’s low (100-
27). Risk ten points 10 ×31.25 = 312.50 plus commissions. Profit objective: Look to sell near 101-10
(near today’s price from Resistance 1 and below yesterday’s high of 101-12). If filled at 101-18, a $500
profit is generated at 101-02 and $750 profit at 101-10.
Trade followup: Once filled on the buy side at 101-18, watch market to move stop. Move stop up to
break even if bonds trade up to 100-28.
FIGURE 11.1 Sample daily trading worksheet.

P-11_4218 4/26/04 3:33 PM Page 196
196 THE MENTAL GAME: Inside the Trader
On successful trading days it will be good to recap your successes so
that they can be repeated. Of course, on bad days recapping can allow you
to focus on what went wrong so you can improve and stop repeating the
same mistakes over and over again.
A DOSE OF REALITY
When you fill out your worksheet and study the markets you select, make
sure you have a realistic grasp of what you can accomplish with the re-
sources you have. One of the major sources of strain for you may be the
amount of capital you have to trade. Overreaching or taking on more than
you or your account can handle can be a major cause of discouragement
and defeatism, the opposite of the attributes you want to develop to be a
successful trader.
Be realistic about the amount of total capital you have to trade com-
pared with the margin requirements you need. Study the markets you are
familiar with and can realistically afford. If your trading account is only
$10,000 or less, studying or charting the Nasdaq 100 index futures with an
initial margin requirement of close to $20,000 would not be considered a re-
alistic approach and would most likely be a waste of your time.
Here is a guideline for what you might be able to trade. Assume your
starting balance is, say, $10,000 and you want to trade five contracts of a
commodity where the initial margin is $2,000. For each full position, you
are using $10,000 of margin money ($2,000 ×5 = $10,000). That’s 100 percent
of your investment capital for one trade. If the market moves against you
only a small amount, it could wipe out most or all of your account.
Some money managers suggest using only 50 percent of your invest-
ment capital in any one trade and then risking 20 percent of your initial
capital in that trade. With this formula you would be using $5,000 in mar-
gin on a $10,000 account, risking $2,000 on your first trade. That is more
realistic than thinking you can trade five contracts. Throwing the dice
and putting all your capital in one trade idea is a crapshoot and sounds
like a long shot. This is not to say it can’t be done, but you need to be able
to accept the consequences if you lose your entire trading account in that
one trade.
Use only risk capital to trade. Specifically, that means only money you
can afford to lose. Then accept the fact that you will lose on some trades,
maybe all of your money or even more than was in your account. If you
don’t realize this, then you might be trading scared money, and fear of los-
ing will keep you from placing well thought out trades or, worse, cause you
to hesitate and get in the market late after the move is over.

P-11_4218 4/26/04 3:33 PM Page 197
Take a Break 197
UNDERSTAND YOUR EMOTIONS
Fear, greed, doubt. These three emotions can hinder your trading. Every in-
vestor should analyze his or her own emotional makeup and the resources
available for trading. Many books have been written on this subject, but the
conclusions are mostly a matter of self-analysis that depend on each
trader’s personal characteristics.
Fear of losing can cause traders to make bad trading decisions, and
doubt can cause the same results. Greed can cause some traders to allow
good profits to erode back to breakeven levels or even losses as they hope for
even bigger gains. Putting on too many trades searching for the “big kahuna”
or “mother lode” also stems from greed. Sometimes it is best to just have a se-
ries of base hits rather than going for the grand slam. I certainly do not have
the patent on this cliché, but it has been said, “It is better to have a million
profitable trades rather than one profitable trade that makes a million.”
Understanding your emotions is a very important subject that needs to
be addressed and examined. Trading can produce an increase in your heart
rate and your blood pressure. Make sure you are physically fit to handle the
demands that trading in the markets may produce. You need to monitor
your trading behavior and actions while under stress or while dealing with
what I call the adrenaline rush. When you are wrong, do you freeze up and
get the feeling of butterflies in your stomach? Do you become unduly irri-
table or feel panicky? I hope that you are aware that these conditions are
not conducive for successful trading.
Lack of confidence and fear are your enemies. Avoid putting yourself in
a situation that will cause you to be skeptical or afraid before you trade.
Also, do not trade while going through major personal events such as buy-
ing or selling a house, moving, illness, a change in careers or loss of a job, a
breakup in a relationship or divorce, a death in the family, or loss of a friend.
Try to make educated decisions, and make sure you have the time to invest
in your work before putting on any trades.
TAKE A BREAK
Whatever your emotional makeup, trading can be a very emotionally drain-
ing experience, especially when you are wrong and lose money. There is
nothing more humbling and crushing to an ego or confidence level than get-
ting beat up in the market. If it ever comes down to the point that you are
frustrated and not happy with your trading results and you lack desire or
the faith that you have the ability to succeed, stop trading immediately!

P-11_4218 4/26/04 3:33 PM Page 198
198 THE MENTAL GAME: Inside the Trader
Take a break. Maybe two weeks or sometimes a month or more will
help. Getting away from the trading action will give you a fresh perspective
on the markets and allow you to refocus your game plan once you return. To
attempt to be successful, you have to be prepared and in a confident frame of
mind. To be on top of their game, athletes train hard, work out, and are in fit
condition before competing. I don’t think Tiger Woods would play a round of
golf competitively if he pulled a muscle in his back. He would take time out
to let the injury heal and then get back into the swing of things. If you are
emotionally beaten or your confidence is down, you are not going to be in tip-
top shape to trade. In that state of mind mistakes may easily be made. Re-
member, preservation of capital and equity growth are the most important
aspects of trading. If you are not in the right frame of mind and lose your con-
fidence, you may increase your chances for losses.
If you have been on a losing streak, take time off to let your psyche heal.
Use the time off to reexamine how you feel and act under stressful situa-
tions. If you are wrong too often and do not see some profitable results or
you have the “eat like a bird and crap like an elephant” syndrome (when a
trader takes extremely small profits and lets devastating losers ride), stop
trading. Reexamine how you are doing when you are trading before you put
on another position.
On the golf course the thrill of hitting a 300-yard drive straight off the
tee and having the ball roll right down the middle of the fairway, skydiving,
surviving a high-tech roller-coaster ride, and trading futures and options
can generate major adrenaline rushes. That rush is what drives some people
to those events. Only the last one will be an expensive ride if you are wrong
too often. Reevaluate why you are in the game. Hopefully, it is to make
money and to have fun. If it is for the rush and you lose money, seek pro-
fessional help. Only you can determine what it is that you are doing.
YOUR TRADING TO-DO LIST
Here are some techniques you can try that may help you stay on top of your
game and keep you in peak performance. Remember, if you continue to learn
in life, you will continue to grow, and your life may change as a direct result
of the effort you put forth. So try these physical and psychological exercises
to help improve your thinking and frame of mind. Do this so that you can
consistently try to make money and cope or accept things better if they do
go wrong. Hopefully, you will be able to identify what is not going right and
respond quickly to correct it. Following these suggestions may not lead to
success; not following them, however, may increase your chances of failure!
1.Write down your trading goals and identify your focus. Be realistic;
start with small goals. For example, resolve to commit 15 minutes a day to

P-11_4218 4/26/04 3:33 PM Page 199
Your Trading To-Do List 199
your analysis. Start by filling out the worksheet with the indicators that I
demonstrated or choose your own. You may want to start with chart pattern
recognition and focus on identifying those for a few commodities. Eliminate
tracking the futures products that you would not trade due to circumstances
such as margin requirements or liquidity concerns. If you do not have the
capital to trade Nasdaq futures, natural gas, or platinum, don’t waste your
time studying or analyzing those markets. Don’t bother looking at the euro/
yen spread or the Fed funds contract or fluid milk futures. Those are not
highly liquid markets that you are likely to day-trade or swing trade anyway
so stay away from those markets as well. Study the markets within your im-
mediate financial grasp.
2.If you have the ability to be a good analyst but can’t pull the trigger,
then try this exercise with your broker or brokerage firm if you trade online.
When you are ready to trade, you should have formulated a game plan that in-
cludes your entry and exit points. The exit point should consider the risk as
well as the profit objectives. I write a weekly newsletter on Saturday or early
Sunday with my entry and exit points. The analysis is done in a calm state of
mind where I am not disturbed and can focus on work. On Monday mornings
I place open orders (GTC) for clients based on that research, both entry and
stop-loss orders. The next step is to sit back and wait.
The process is all mechanical; no emotions hinder me. Win, lose, or
draw, the orders are executed, and most times the hard part is contacting the
clients to find out where they want to take a profit on the winning trades. The
losers are stopped out, and the orders that are not hit or executed are can-
celed at the end of the week. You can use the same approach. Do your home-
work on a daily basis. Place your orders before the market opens with
instructions for your broker to call you once the orders are filled. Then mon-
itor the trade. You should not get stage fright in placing the orders because
the market won’t be open yet.
3.Reward yourself once in a while. After achieving a goal—devoting 15
minutes a day for a week to some project or completing a successful trade,
for example—I will usually compliment or treat myself to something. It
could be as simple as telling myself, “That was a great job,” to maybe buying
a Godiva chocolate or a nice cigar. On really good times, it may be schedul-
ing a vacation, especially where there are golf courses.
4. Positive affirmations are extremely important to help improve self-
confidence, especially in trading. This exercise requires physical exertion.
What you need to do is to pick up that 400-pound pen or pencil and write out
these words 10 times a day: “I am a positive, fearless, and a successful
trader” or “I am succeeding in making money trading the markets.” By
doing this activity, you are reaffirming your subconscious mind that you are
a successful trader. You are then only going to focus on the positive forces
and work on combating the destructive negative emotions that can and usu-

P-11_4218 4/26/04 3:33 PM Page 200
200 THE MENTAL GAME: Inside the Trader
ally do interfere with being successful in trading. This technique can be ap-
plied to other aspects of your life as well.
5. Utilize visualization techniques, taking quiet times during the day,
meditation, and other steps to achieve relaxation. All of these methods may
sound silly or absurd. However, they have all been proven methods to help
in different areas of different people’s lives. Practice them and apply them
in your trading life. Take a few moments a day to visualize yourself as a suc-
cessful trader. Close your eyes and take a moment to project in your mind
the steps that you would take from doing your chart work and analysis to
entering your order and taking a profit. Get your mind prepared for being a
winner and making money. Sometimes people become what they think they
are. So tell yourself that you are a successful trader and practice these prin-
ciples while you are trading. Take quiet times during the day to focus your
attention on the business at hand. Not everyone can be staring at a quote
screen all day—that is, unless you are a professional trader or a broker.
Even then, you need to walk away for a moment.
You will have daily distractions from your job. Take a few moments out
for yourself. Take a few deep breaths and tell your subconscious that you
are a “positive and fearless trader.” Try a meditation technique when you
feel unusual stress developing or just do it everyday on your way to work,
in an elevator, or sitting on the “throne.” Take a long, deep breath and hold
it for about 10 seconds. Then exhale slowly and at the same time concen-
trate on saying to yourself, “I am calm and relaxed” or “I am a successful
trader.” Repeat at least 10 times.
Stress can cause muscle fatigue and tense back muscles. Learn to relax.
Get a massage or take a hot bath or a long shower when you get home.
Treat yourself in moderation, maybe to some ice cream or your favorite
candy bar. Spend 15 to 30 minutes a day working out doing exercises.
These are ways to decrease the stress levels in your life as a trader.
6.Do not be too demanding of yourself and do not become obsessed.
Life is about balance. Another phrase applies here: Work hard and party
hard. I believe in self-rewards, serenity, and financial security. Getting the
most out of life is great. Going to extremes is a difficult way of life that gen-
erally catches up with you. Complete isolation and compulsive reclusive
studying are not the answer for me nor do I believe they are for most peo-
ple. Be flexible and shoot for consistency. I believe in consistency and
progress rather than obsessive behavior and striving for perfection. Con-
sistency is rewarded by confidence. Success is not measured by how much
you made in one trade but by being able to make money consistently over
time and keeping what you made.
The purpose of this chapter is not to entice the trader who is losing
money to think he or she will make money by following these techniques. I

P-11_4218 4/26/04 3:33 PM Page 201
Your Trading To-Do List 201
do not want to give you a false sense of hope. I just want to show you what
has worked for me through the years when I have gone through cold spells.
Other extremely successful traders that I have known and listened to have
gone through cold spells. They spent thousands of dollars seeking the ad-
vice of professional counselors or mentors or took time off from trading
just to improve their self-confidence and discipline levels. You are not alone
if you are going through a period of losing trades, and you certainly are not
unique. Many superior top-ranked traders have all suffered through their
times of bad trades.
If you have not had to experience any dramatic losses yet, knock on
wood! But there may come a day when nothing goes right and your “equity
keeps on slipping, slipping into the futures” (sung to the tune of the Steve
Miller song, “Time Keeps on Slipping”). If that day comes, do not panic.
Stop trading, reread this chapter and put it into action. Remember, it is all
right to be wrong; just don’t be wrong all the time and make the same mis-
takes over and over again.
Successful trading is all about diligence and hard work and having a
winning attitude! Keep that in mind and evaluate yourself in 30 days after
having tried some or all of these exercises to see if you are a better trader.

P-11_4218 4/26/04 3:33 PM Page 202

P-12_4218 2/24/04 3:29 PM Page 203
CHAPTER 12
The Tactical
Trader
Tips and Techniques
That Work
The harder you work, the luckier you get.
—Gary Player
I
want to introduce you to some of the techniques that professionals use
so you can incorporate and apply them in your trading plans. I have
done a casual survey in the industry by interviewing brokers over the
phone and in person. What I discovered was that some were not actual
brokers or traders but were “equity raisers” or licensed solicitors with lit-
tle or no market knowledge or actual trading experiences. Clients of mine
have admitted that they thought they were more knowledgeable and ex-
perienced in the field of investing than their previous brokers.
That admission gives me two reasons to reinforce the fact that investors
need to read this book. First, at the end of Chapter 10, I explained why it is
important to ask questions so you can choose the right brokerage firm and
broker for you. Conducting a simple interview by asking a few select ques-
tions may save you money and, more important, aggravation. Your broker is
really your employee so make sure you get a qualified and experienced one.
You should be getting what you pay for. If you are using a full-service broker
who is charging a higher rate of commission for service and experience,
make sure he or she actually has experience and knowledge and can help
tutor or train you in tactical trading techniques.
If you are a seasoned trading veteran, you may be trading with a deep-
discount brokerage firm. What the firm will allow you to do during the open-
outcry (day) session versus after-hours trading may be different from what
203

P-12_4218 2/24/04 3:29 PM Page 204
204 THE TACTICAL TRADER: Tips and Techniques That Work
you expect. Here are some things you might want to find out that could af-
fect your trading style:
• What is the day-trading margin policy? Some firms have more flexibil-
ity in day-trading margin requirements than others, so day-trading mul-
tiple positions may offer you more leverage than you expect, which may
be good or bad depending on how you handle it.
• Can you margin your account with securities such as gold or silver
certificates?
• Will the firm allow you to trade if you have U.S. Treasury bills in your
margin account?
• Are services such as real-time quotes, research reports, newsletters,
and the like free or is there a charge?
• Can you place orders over the phone or online 24 hours a day, seven
days a week?
• How is the firm’s support staff when you need them?
• Does the firm even have a customer service department to answer
questions you may have regarding your account statements?
These questions illustrate what I mean by finding out what services a bro-
kerage firm has to offer. You may be able to add other needs and questions,
but these are some things I think you want to know.
The second reason why I firmly believe traders with different levels of
experience can benefit from information in this book is because they can
learn—or at least refresh what they may already know—about practical
market strategies, trading tactics, or target trading techniques used by pro-
fessional traders.
Previous chapters covered the basics of futures and the mechanics of
the markets as well as technical analysis techniques to identify potential
buy and sell signals. I also covered measuring techniques that chartists use
to gain insight on how far a market may move based on chart pattern recog-
nition and mathematical formulas. I touched on the subject of measuring the
temperature of the market by using sentiment and consensus readings as
well as explaining different market conditions and dealing with emotions.
The focus in this chapter will be on how to apply different techniques
and tactics in your arsenal of trading tools and knowledge. To elaborate
on this subject, I would like to illustrate from the book, Technical Analysis
of the Futures Markets,written by John J. Murphy, the three important el-
ements of successful futures trading. They are price forecasting, trading
tactics, and money management. I cannot put it any better so I will simply
quote from his explanation:

P-12_4218 2/24/04 3:29 PM Page 205
Pyramiding 205
Trading tactics, or timing, determines specific entry and exit points.
Timing is especially crucial in futures trading. Because of the low
margin requirements and the resulting high leverage, there isn’t
much room for error. It’s quite possible to be correct on the direction
of the market, but still lose money on a trade if the timing is off. Tim-
ing is almost entirely technical in nature. Therefore, even if the trader
is fundamentally oriented, technical tools must be employed at this
point to determine specific entry and exit points.
The simplest way to summarize the three different elements is
that price forecasting tells the trader whatto do (buy or sell), trading
tactics or timing helps decide whento do it, and money management
determineshow much to commit to the trade.
The techniques discussed in this chapter really have to do with the ele-
ment of timing your entry and exit points and using different methods to
capitalize on price direction.
PYRAMIDING
How to build a market position is a popular topic. More experienced traders
have had success and acclaim the value of pyramiding. New investors in-
quire about this trading method because it has the get-rich-quick mystique
surrounding it. Writers have published articles about it, and there is infor-
mation on the Internet advertising how the “smart money traders” use this
method and why investors should incorporate the secrets of this “time-
tested” method into their trading plan to “create wealth quickly.”
With all the attention that pyramid trading has gained, no wonder this
seemingly get-rich scheme attracts novice traders. I will explain only what
I have gained from my own experience after clients have asked about it. A
lot of new investors want to find out if there is a pyramiding opportunity. Of
course, there is always the chance for opportunity in futures anytime you
trade, but remember that there is always the opportunity for loss as well as
profit. Pyramiding can create massive profits when the market trend direc-
tion moves in your favor. However, massive losses can mount up as well if
the market price corrects against you.
I am only going to present hypothetical examples of what pyramid trad-
ing is in a perfect-world scenario. As we all know, this is not a perfect world.
The illustrations are for educational purposes only. I do not want you to go
out and start trading like this without further investigating. This is a tech-
nique that I consider to be leveraging leverage using more leverage.

P-12_4218 2/24/04 3:29 PM Page 206
206 THE TACTICAL TRADER: Tips and Techniques That Work
The following is an exact example of formulating a trading plan using a
specific trading tactic that incorporates a sound money management tech-
nique. However, every trader is responsible for his or her own actions and
finances. Do take the time to do your homework and work out the numbers
on any other futures contract before using this technique.
This example uses soybean futures. A long-term chart should paint the
picture as to the normal price range of the market (Figure 12.1). I chose soy-
beans for several reasons: (1) The margin requirement was relatively low
($1,000 per contract at the time of this analysis). (2) At $4.20 per bushel, the
price was near a historic low. (3) There was relatively little downside risk
and a lot of upside profit potential if the market moved higher. (Although
those conditions existed in early 2002, they have not existed since then so
that is why this must be labeled a hypothetical example.)
The total contract value of one soybean futures contract at the time
was $21,000 ($4.20 ×5,000 bushels.). If the price went to zero, that is all you
could lose if you could never exit the market for whatever circumstances.
I consider that position to have relatively little downside risk. Another factor
to keep in mind is that the lowest price for soybeans since 1973 was about
FIGURE 12.1 Base for a pyramid. (Source: FutureSource. Reprinted with permission.)

P-12_4218 2/24/04 3:29 PM Page 207
Pyramiding 207
$3.45 per bushel, only 75 cents below the price on January 2, 2002, which is
the basis for this analysis.
Limit buy orders were used, and the concept is that you do not add or-
ders if the market does not move higher. You add positions every 20 cents
higher. I used a 20-cent price swing mainly because the dollar value was
equal to the initial margin requirement. This tactic virtually trades using
money made from the market rather than your own capital. This example
does not account for slippage from trailing stops, commissions, or other
fees associated with trading. I used a standard minimum account balance
of $5,000.
This technique may seem complicated, but it really is simple if you just
write down the figures and do your math. Using professional money man-
agement techniques, I started with one contract, risking 20 percent of my
initial investment of $5,000, which is $1,000 or a 20-cent stop loss. The soy-
bean chart seven months later (Figure 12.2) shows nearly a $1.80 advance
that would have made any pyramid trader happy. As you can see from Table
12.1, my risk shifted from loss to no risk to having positions on and stopping
Beans trade to nearly 6.00
from the 4.15 low in January.
FIGURE 12.2 Seven months and many dollars later. (Source: FutureSource.
Reprinted with permission.)

P-12_4218 2/24/04 3:29 PM Page 208
208 THE TACTICAL TRADER: Tips and Techniques That Work
TABLE 12.1 Soybean Pyramid Plan
Starting
Equity Entry Level Stop Loss Position Risk Results
$5,000 4.20 4.00 Long 1 –$ 1,000 0
$6,000 4.40 4.20 Long 2 –$ 1,000 +$ 1,000
$7,000 4.60 4.40 Long 3 $ 0 +$ 3,000
$8,000 4.80 4.75 Long 4 +$ 1,000 +$ 6,000
$11,000 5.00 4.95 Long 5 +$ 4,000 +$10,000
$15,000 5.20 5.15 Long 6 +$ 7,500 +$15,000
$20,000 5.40 5.40 Long 7 +$14,000 +$21,000
$26,000 5.60 5.50 Long 8 +$16,000 +$28,000
$33,000 5.80 ——————–Take Profits—————— +$36,000
myself out with profits. By adding one contract each time the market ad-
vanced 20 cents, I wound up with eight contracts when prices reached
$5.60. When the price moved from $5.40 to $5.60, for example, I had seven
contracts working for me, earning $7,000 in profits.
At the point of taking profits, my account balance (not including the
transaction costs and commissions) would be near $41,000 ($36,000 plus the
original starting amount of $5,000). Buying one contract at $4.40 and hold-
ing it until $6.00 would have resulted in a gain of only $8,000 for a balance
of $13,000 before commissions and fees.
I could have added more than one position, liquidated half of the posi-
tions at any time, or let the market ride and continued to trail the stops. There
are many variables that could be done with the add-one technique. Play
around with the numbers yourself and discover how pyramiding works.
Another variation of pyramiding is to buy several contracts at the $4.20
level and scale back on the number of contracts with every purchase above
your initial entry level (Table 12.2). This style of pyramiding is what most
people feel is the more standard method because you are long more positions
from the bottom of the market so it’s like the base of an actual pyramid rather
than an equal amount as in the previous example. The problem is that you
will be risking nearly your whole account if the market stops you out in the
first stage of the trade.
One other point is the stops are trailed or adjusted as the market moves
upward. The trader has to set stops based on varying factors such as prior
support and resistance levels or profits or losses accrued in the account.
Some investors will move a stop up just to protect a profit, which in this
style of trading is usually against the main principle of the let-it-ride type of
mentality that is necessary for pyramiding.

P-12_4218 2/24/04 3:29 PM Page 209
Pyramiding 209
TABLE 12.2 Soybean Pyramid Plan Variation
Starting
Equity Entry Level Stop Loss Add On Position Risk Results
$ 5,000 4.20 4.00 Long 4 –$ 4,000 0
$ 9,000 4.40 4.20 Add 3 Long 7 –$ 3,000 +$ 4,000
$16,000 4.60 4.40 Add 2 Long 9 +$ 2,000 +$11,000
$25,000 5.00 4.70 Add 1 Long 10 +$12,500 +$29,000
$35,000 5.20 4.90 Long 10 +$24,000 +$39,000
$45,000 5.40 5.00 Long 10 +$29,000 +$49,000
$55,000 5.60 5.40 Long 10 +$49,000 +$59,000
$65,000 5.80 5.50 Long 10 +$54,000 +$69,000
$75,000 6.00 ——————–Take Profits——————–––––– +$79,000
This is a specific game plan strategy that requires discipline and the
ability to be able to risk the entire account value to achieve the targeted re-
sults. I use the stop placements here as both a reasonable capital preserva-
tion maneuver and as a responsible trader looking to take money out of the
market. Always remember, though, that stops do not guarantee anything
due to market conditions, as discussed previously.
Extremely large profits can accrue quickly with very little investment
capital. However, you can lose it just as quickly. Several events could happen
and need to be addressed: Stops need to be adjusted carefully. You might be
tempted to continue to add positions beyond a top indicated by your analy-
sis. The exchange could raise the margin requirements while you are in the
trade, forcing you to deposit additional funds or liquidate some or all of your
positions earlier than you would want.
Certainly no trade is ever this predictable, and a move in soybean fu-
tures from $4.40 to $6.00 was a tremendous price move for a short period
of time. These are some factors that I did not include in my example, so do
a reality check of the market you are trading when you estimate how high
a market could rally in a specific time period. You need to control your
greed factor as well and trail those stops. Just try to develop a game plan
before you trade and see for yourself if this trading tactic could help in your
knowledge of trading futures and options. Even if you apply a portion of
this technique in another market and a smaller move occurs, you may boost
your trading capital better than you expected.
Whatever you do, you do not want to get into a reverse pyramid arrange-
ment where you get cocky after the market goes up and gives you money to

P-12_4218 2/24/04 3:29 PM Page 210
210 THE TACTICAL TRADER: Tips and Techniques That Work
work with. You may be tempted to add multiple contracts at higher and
higher price levels, setting up a situation where even a small price setback
could wipe out all of your profits.
SCALE TRADING
Scale trading is another popular style of trading that tries to capitalize on a
market that is at historically low price levels. It involves entering multiple
contracts and staggering your positions at different entry levels. Some ana-
lysts and professional traders prefer to use this method with physical futures
contracts rather than financial products because with physical futures there
are finite price levels that affect supply/demand, and there will always be
demand for the product at some price. Financial products are paper assets
with no real physical value and are susceptible to complete devaluation.
Charts for physical commodity futures will show an absolute low value
from an historical price perspective as well as from a cost of production
point of view. It is that belief and theory that gives scale traders confidence
not to get scared out of a market but to increase their holdings and to cost
average as prices move lower. Coffee may be an example of a market that
has gotten about as low as it can go in the early 2000s (Figure 12.3).
Prices could trade lower or stay at a low level for an extended period
of time, but I don’t believe coffee producers will give their product away for
free. It costs too much in labor, delivery, and storage to harvest a single cof-
fee bean at too low a price. When the burlap bag it is carried in costs more
than the raw product, producers, exporters, or roasters will be forced to
shut down their operations. The result will be that supplies will tighten, and
prices would then tend to rise to ration demand.
After all, isn’t that what happened to crude oil in 1999 when prices
were trading near $9.80 per barrel? A cut in production by the Organization
of Petroleum Exporting Countries and continued strong global demand
caused a spike in prices, a great example that shows how prices go from one
extreme to another. In less than two years crude oil prices went from below
$10 to nearly $36 a barrel (Figure 12.4). Some analysts call this supply com-
placency,a phase that occurs when end users believe prices will always re-
main low and don’t commit to buying and holding supplies.
Scale trading generally takes the guesswork out of timing when to go
long a market—to a certain degree—especially when prices are near historic
lows. If you want to be a scale trader, you need to lay out a plan and have a
large reserve of trading capital while you wait for your plan to work.
The idea in scale trading is to set a base price at a point near previous
lows or when prices seem to be about as “low as they are likely to go.” You
begin buying at that price. You may be early and prices go lower, but instead

P-12_4218 2/24/04 3:29 PM Page 211
Scale Trading 211
FIGURE 12.3 Coffee: Setup for a scale plan? (Source: FutureSource. Reprinted with
permission.)
of getting out of your position, you set up your plan to buy more contracts
at specified increments below your starting price—like averaging down in
buying stocks. You do not use stops. You keep buying on the way down until
prices hit a bottom and begin to turn back up. They do have to go back up,
don’t they? Once the market price rebounds, you simply sell positions back
to the market that you have accumulated from lower levels.
On the oil chart (Figure 12.4), for example, you might have started buy-
ing on a scale trading plan at $15, below the 1995 low. You bought more at
$14, more at $13, more at $12, more at $11, more at $10—who ever expected
prices to go that low? Eventually your plan paid off, but you can imagine how
much money you would have had to put up to hold your positions.
In addition to large amounts of reserve capital, one hazard of scale trad-
ing is market timing. You may have to roll out of one contract month into
another multiple times before prices begin to move up, and the new contract
may be at a different price level. Undercapitalized trading accounts can ex-
perience large drawdowns in equity, and you could be blown out of positions
by not meeting margin calls.

P-12_4218 2/24/04 3:29 PM Page 212
212 THE TACTICAL TRADER: Tips and Techniques That Work
FIGURE 12.4 Oil: Foundation for a scale? (Source: FutureSource. Reprinted with
permission.)
OTHER TACTICS AND TECHNIQUES
There is certainly never a guarantee that any trading strategy will produce
substantial, if any, profits, but it is a good idea to understand the techniques
and the methods behind what other traders may be doing.
Here are some other techniques and tactics I have used or observed in
recent years. The amazing thing is they continue to work with relatively lit-
tle notoriety, meaning not many people discuss these trading tactics. That’s
good because by the time the news is out about them, things will change.
• Utilize the S&P 500 Friday 10:30 a.m. rule. This is a directional time rule.
The trend from 10:30 a.m. until 12 noon will be the trend going into the
close of business on Fridays. My suspicions for the reason behind this
phenomenon is that I believe traders are determined to follow the trend
right into the close of business for the week. Traders don’t want to be
the last one holding the proverbial bag over the weekend. The trend that
starts at 10:30 could be due to Fed time (when the Federal Reserve

P-12_4218 2/24/04 3:29 PM Page 213
Other Tactics and Techniques 213
makes adjustments in the banking system by adding or depleting funds
with its borrowing program) or margin call liquidation time (margin
calls that are not met are discovered when wire transfers are not re-
ceived). The trend of the day is sometimes reversed from the day ses-
sion open until 10:30. Sometimes the trend starts out on a strong up
note but then drifts and reverses lower. In any case, the trend that forms
from 10:30 until noon is the trend that continues through the close. Day
traders may want to wait until that time to trade with the established in-
traday trend. The S&P daily chart (Figure 12.5) illustrates 12 weekly
closes when the market closed darn near the actual low or high of the
daily trading range session. All but two examples are picture perfect.
Those two were holiday trading sessions (July 3 was a Thursday rather
than a Friday trading day because the market was closed on Friday).
• Chart patterns are hard to visualize for some traders. When you are hav-
ing a hard time interpreting bullish or bearish patterns, turn the chart
around and upside down. You may gain a different perspective that will
enable you to visually identify a particular formation.
Market tends to trend in one direction into
the close on Fridays more times than not.
Thursday July 3rd;
Friday closed for
Fourth of July holiday.
FIGURE 12.5 S&P trends on Fridays. (Source: FutureSource. Reprinted with
permission.)

P-12_4218 2/24/04 3:29 PM Page 214
214 THE TACTICAL TRADER: Tips and Techniques That Work
• Watch your entry prices on stops. Be careful not to place stops at cer-
tain levels—for example, 08/32nds, 16/32nds, or 24/32nds in bonds and
10-year notes. These numbers are equal to quarter, half, and three-quar-
ters. You generally want to put your buy stops above these levels and
your sell stops below those levels as those prices can act as support
and resistance on an intraday basis. Grain markets act the same way.
Do not use 0.5 or 1-cent levels for stops. In meats, 0.25, 0.50, and 0.75
act in the same manner.
• Whenever you have a signal that is so strong that you think it can’t fail—
I mean, 10 different indications—and you are so sure the market just
can’t go the opposite way, then use a stop reversal. Odds are if the mar-
ket looks that good, it probably looks that good to every other trader.
What everyone else knows isn’t worth knowing sometimes. If the mar-
ket fails and stops you out, then it will fill you on a reversing stop, and
the momentum of the price move could help offset a loss in the original
position.
• Trade in multiple contracts, and get out of half of your positions when
the market gives you a decent profit. That way, if it continues in your
direction, you still have half of your contracts that can participate in the
continuation move. If the market fails, then move your stop to break-
even so you have a chance to break even on the other half of the trade.
Because you booked a profit on the first half, it becomes difficult to lose
money on a winning trade. This strategy requires action to maintain
your position. Buy-and-hold strategies make it hard to build capital in
some markets.
• Compare market analysis and cycle analysis to see if they correspond
with each other. In some economic environments you will see bonds go
up and equity prices decline. Know your markets. This is a great tech-
nique, especially when trying to verify a position or strategy that may not
be working out.
• Be aware of first notice day tricks. Brokers often want speculators out
of markets before first notice day, because of the inability of the small
speculator to make or take physical delivery from a financial standpoint.
More times than not, prices move in agriculture markets on the day after
first notice day. Floor and professional traders, realizing that the pie
will be smaller to share once the retail investors are out of the market,
are willing to take the risk of trading a market in a delivery period. Their
secret is that if they are long a market, they “freshen up their entry
dates.” Deliveries are made against positions based on the oldest dates
of those long positions. If you get out of a long position two days before
first notice day and reestablish your position the next morning, your
chances of getting a delivery notice are slim. The exchanges release

P-12_4218 2/24/04 3:29 PM Page 215
Other Tactics and Techniques 215
these dates of notice every morning so traders can gauge how long they
can ride the market without risk of getting a delivery notice. This is not
a tactic for everyone, but if you believe the fundamentals exist for a
supply shortage in the nearby futures contract and prices will carry
higher, then it may help you. Take up this technique with your broker.
These tips and techniques are updated in my advisory service.

P-12_4218 2/24/04 3:29 PM Page 216

P-13_4218 2/24/04 3:32 PM Page 217
CHAPTER 13
Options
A Primer
There is no future in any job. The future lies in
the man who holds the job.
—George Crane
I
believe George Crane captures the reason why so many people are in-
terested in trading: They want to take control of their own financial des-
tiny. After all, you are your own boss when it comes to trading. You hold
your own future in your hands because you hold your own job as a trader.
You have the opportunity to succeed.
If you are interested in becoming that trader who controls his or her
own destiny but are still concerned about the volatility and risk in futures,
one way to trade that may be more palatable to you is with options, an al-
ternative that might fit your trading style better. If used at certain times,
buying options can be a great and powerful investment tool for any trader.
If you are right about market direction, very few, if any, investments in
a government-regulated trading vehicle can offer the leverage and prof-
itability with limited downside risk that buying options offers. The possi-
bility exists for tremendous gains, especially with the increasingly volatile
market moves.
However, options do have a negative connotation for many investors.
Many industry experts estimate that 80 percent to 90 percent of the time,
options expire worthless. Many individual investors who have traded them
have found that to be true—the hard way, of course. However, if you think
about it, a wrong opinion about market direction will result in a loss any
way you look at it, whether it is in a futures position or an options position.
Some believe that when you are wrong about the market, trading futures is
217

P-13_4218 2/24/04 3:32 PM Page 218
218 OPTIONS: A Primer
like a quick death while buying options can be like a slow “bleeding to death”
type of trade due to the time until expiration. But, wrong is wrong, any way
you look at it.
So I think options may have been given a bad rap and abused by traders.
If 80 percent to 90 percent of the options expire worthless and traders lose
their premium money, the answer must be to do the opposite—that is, you
must write or sell options to make money eight out of ten times by selling
option premium. The probabilities seem to be in your favor.
However, there is one glitch when writing options: Your profit potential
is limited and your risk is unlimited. Therefore, options writing usually in-
volves more risk capital, as there are generally margin requirements that
have to be met. It is the two times out of ten when you are wrong that sell-
ing options can kill you and wipe away any trading profits.
Of course, no method can be guaranteed to trade profitability. The un-
predictability of the markets and the severity of market moves require in-
vestors to be more knowledgeable and diverse in their trading techniques
when they trade options. At the very least, though, traders should become
familiar with options.
The key to making money in any investment, first of all, is to be in the
market and to establish a position before the market moves. Timing the entry
or exit is most of the battle; having the right amount of contracts is the rest.
Again, the important element is timing. Being in the market before it moves
and participating with a good balance of instruments relative to your risk
capital is considered establishing a position. In futures and options, that
could be two positions for small traders. For an extremely large trader, it
could mean having a thousand positions. For an investor in options, timing
is one of the key elements in calculating the value of an option. Being in the
market too early will result in an option expiring worthless.
Positioned properly, options can be very helpful in certain situations. In
the following pages, I explain some of the basics of using options on futures,
give examples of different strategies, and demonstrate how options can be
combined with a futures position to act like an insurance policy.
OPTIONS 101
To start, there are two types of options: calls and puts. You can be a buyer
or a seller. The price at which an option is bought or sold is called the
premium.
A buyer or long option holder of a call has the right, but not the obliga-
tion, to be long a futures position at a specific price level for a specific pe-
riod of time. For that right, the buyer of a call pays the premium. A buyer or
long option holder of a put has the right, but not the obligation, to be short

P-13_4218 2/24/04 3:32 PM Page 219
Options 101 219
a futures position at a specific price level for a specific period of time. Again,
for that right, the buyer of a put pays a premium.
For option buyers, the premium is a nonrefundable payment, unlike the
good-faith deposits or performance bonds required for a futures contract.
Premium values are subject to constant changes as dictated by market con-
ditions and other variables.
A seller or option writer of a call or put grants the option buyer the
rights conveyed by that option. The seller receives the premium that has
been paid by the buyer. Sellers have no rights to that specific option except
that they receive the premium for the transaction and are obligated to de-
liver the futures position if assigned according to the terms of the option. A
seller can cover his or her position by buying back the option or by spread-
ing off the risk in other options or in the underlying futures market if mar-
ket conditions permit.
A buyer of an option has the right to either offset the long option or to
exercise the option at any time during the life of the option. When a buyer
exercises the option, he or she gets the specific market position (long for
calls and short for puts) in the underlying futures contract at the specific
price level as determined by the strike price. Options are generally exercised
when they are in the money. In fact, in the futures market, if an option settles
in the money at expiration, it will automatically be exercised for the buyer
unless the buyer gives an order to abandon the option. In that case, the op-
tion premium will be lost, and the option writer will be released from his or
her obligation to accept the opposite position.
Three major factors determine an option’s value or premium:
1. Time Value. Time value is the difference between the time you enter
the option position and the life the option holds until expiration. An op-
tion that has a longer life ahead is worth more than an option that is
soon to expire, other things being equal. The reason why the term
wasting assetrefers to an option is because as the option gets closer to
its expiration, it is worth less than it was when it had more time value.
2. Intrinsic Value.Intrinsic value refers to the distance between the strike
price of the option and the price of the underlying futures contract. If
an option’s strike price is closer to the underlying futures contract, it will
be more expensive than an option that is further away from the strike
price. For example, a call option, which gives the buyer the right to be
long the market, will cost more if the strike price is lower or closer to
the actual futures price. The reverse is true for put options. A put option
will be more expensive if the strike price is higher and closer to the ac-
tual futures price. If the strike price of a call is above the price of futures
or if a put price is below the price of futures, the options are considered
to be out of the moneybecause neither is worth exercising. When the

P-13_4218 2/24/04 3:32 PM Page 220
220 OPTIONS: A Primer
strike price of a call is below the price of futures or the strike price of
a put is above the price of futures, these options are in the money. A
5.00 soybean call is out of the money when the futures price is $4.45, for
example, but a 5.00 put would be considered in the money.
3. Volatility Rate.Volatility is based on price fluctuations in the activity
on the underlying futures market. The wider and faster the price move-
ments are, the higher the volatility level is, and the higher the volatility,
the higher the premium for the option, other things being equal. Implied
volatilityis a figure used to rank the volatility percentage that explains
the current market price of an option. It is considered the common de-
nominator of option pricing as it helps compare an option’s theoretical
value under different market conditions. Historical volatilityrefers to
the measure of the actual price change of the futures product during a
specified time period. Using mathematical calculations, historical volatil-
ity is the annualized standard deviation of daily returns during the
period.
Other variables are also used to calculate an option’s value such as in-
terest rates and demand for the option itself. For instance, if you bought a
call option and if the underlying futures market is moving up toward your
strike price, then the option’s premium may increase in value as option
writers or sellers will want more money and buyers will have to pay more
for the option.
One of the first things to know about buying options on futures is that
you do not need to hold them until expiration. Option buyers may sell their
position at any time during market hours when the contracts are trading on
the exchange. Options may be exercised at any time before the expiration
date during regular market hours by notifying your broker. This is called
theAmerican styleof option exercising. The European styleof option ex-
ercising means you can only exercise your option on the day the option
expires. This method usually refers to equity options traded overseas. The
references in this book are only to options on futures that are traded in the
United States.
You also need to know that most options on deliverablefutures expire
about a month before their respective futures contract months. For exam-
ple, a July call option on corn futures will expire around June 20. Cash set-
tlement products such as stock index futures have their options expire on
the same day as the main underlying quarterly contract months: March, June,
September, and December. Stock index futures also have off-month options
that expire on the third Thursday of every month.
If you buy an option and the market moves in the direction of your strike
price, then the value may increase to the point where you may realize a profit
after commissions and fees. If you are long a call or a put option, all you need

P-13_4218 2/24/04 3:32 PM Page 221
Options 101 221
to do is sell it. If you believe that market conditions have changed and your
opinion has changed, or if you think the option has gained about as much
as it can, then get out. Provided there is a liquid market for the option, you
should receive at least some premium back if there is time value left and if
the strike price is still close to the underlying futures price.
The purpose of this chapter is to give you a better understanding of the
mechanics of options trading. I want to acquaint you with the everyday rel-
evance of options trading for the individual trader and include my experi-
ences and observations. I would rather help you understand when and how
to use options than try to explain the complex details of the formulas and
mathematical computations that determine the theoretical value of an op-
tions premium. The Black–Scholes model incorporates the current under-
lying futures price, expected volatility, time until expiration, interest rates,
strike price, and so on. That type of computation is what computer programs
are for, and we’ll leave that for the brokers and software vendors who pro-
vide these services and can tell you the effect of different scenarios for
volatility, time, and the magnitude of the price move.
Although some elements of options pricing may seem to be complex,
you should be familiar with what are known as the Greeks:
• Delta is the amount by which an option’s value will change relative to
the change in value of the underlying futures contract.
• Beta is a measure of an option’s price movement based on the overall
movement of the option market.
• Theta is the estimate of the price depreciation from time decay.
• Vega is the measure of the rate of change in an option’s theoretical value
for a certain percentage change in the volatility rate.
• Gamma is the rate of change in an option’s delta based on a certain per-
cent change in the underlying futures contract.
Options and option strategies can be made simple or extremely com-
plex because options are an extremely versatile investment instrument.
What has made options trading so popular is that investors are now realiz-
ing that there are a wide variety of strategies and combinations that can
offer the ability to maximize leverage and define risk parameters. Options
can be used as a surrogate futures position, or they may be implemented as
a hedge against a futures position, which, in turn, could be a hedge against a
cash position.
The complex options strategies usually involve spreading two or more
positions and are considered a multiple-leg spread strategy. Generally speak-
ing, the more complex the strategy, the more legs that are involved. That
complexity can mean more transaction or commission costs as well. You
need to examine and include these costs in a trading strategy to weigh

P-13_4218 2/24/04 3:32 PM Page 222
222 OPTIONS: A Primer
whether the trade is worth initiating. Consider it like evaluating whether
the cost of doing business is worth the effort. If there is not a lot of room for
profit and the risks outweigh the rewards, then reconsider initiating the
trade. Once you learn to understand this simple concept of weighing your
alternatives, I believe trading in options can be a lot less stressful, and the
result might be a more rewarding trading experience.
After determining a trend direction or a price move in the underlying
futures contract, I like to explore the different avenues to discover which
strategy works for me to capitalize on my opinion. For example, I will look
at the costs, the risk, and the potential reward. Unless you try to figure what
is the best method, you won’t know how to get the most bang for your
buck. Analyze what will work best for you.
Education provides enlightenment and helps give you the confidence
you need to experience new things. Humans seem to have an inherent nat-
ural tendency to be afraid to try new things due to fear of the unknown.
What can cause more fear than investing in an industry that claims that 80
percent to 90 percent of investors lose money? But let me show you how to
examine the markets and formulate your own opinion before you invest
using options. Then you can make an educated, rational business decision
on your own before you place an order using options.
OPTIONS TRADING STEPS
To begin with, you have to have an opinion about what you expect the un-
derlying market to do. Simple. You have three choices: up, down, or side-
ways. Now all you have to do is your homework, analyzing support and
resistance, technical indicators, or whatever you want to use in your analy-
sis to arrive at a decision. After doing your homework, you decide you want
to go long, say, coffee futures. You arrive at this conclusion based on the
fact that the price is at a 30-year low and your technical indicators are gen-
erating a buy signal. You expect a move from the 40-cent level back to at
least the 80-cent price range, which would be a 50 percent correction level
derived from a 2-year high. You conclude that it may take at least 6 months
to see the trade mature.
Great, this is the first step in planning a trade. Now let’s see how you
can trade a plan by exploring the alternatives incorporating the use of op-
tions. I like to use options combined with futures as a hedge or insurance
against adverse moves. This is one situation where that may be a good
choice.
First, you need to know what it takes as a good-faith deposit to margin
a futures contract. You see that the initial requirement for coffee at that time

P-13_4218 2/24/04 3:32 PM Page 223
Options Trading Steps 223
is $2,450 (may change with market conditions) and the maintenance margin
requirement is $1,750. Every point move in coffee is $3.75. A move from 45
to 46 cents is a 100-point move, which is equivalent to $375.
An at-the-money 45 March put has a price of 280 points so, with each
point worth $3.75, the cost of the put is $1,050 before commissions and re-
lated fees. The March put expires on February 8, providing 72 days of pro-
tection from today’s date, November 28. If you buy a futures contract at
46.60 cents and pay a premium of 280 points, the cost of the option and the
difference between the strike price and the futures price is 440 points
(times $3.75 equals $1,650). Until the expiration of the option, that is your
risk and your margin requirement. To break even at expiration, you need
coffee futures to be at 49.40 cents.
If coffee falls to, let’s say, 10 cents for the first time in 30 years, all you
could lose is the initial dollar amount of $1,650. This is, in essence, a limited
loss/unlimited profit spread position. The only way you can lose is if coffee
goes down or does not move at all for the next 72 days. The profit opportu-
nity that exists, if coffee rallies, is unlimited if the price reaches above 49.40
during the next 72 days.
All right, that is scenario number one. Or, as I tell investors, start play-
ing the Monte Hall television game show, “Let’s Make a Deal.” That is what
is behind door number one. Let’s start looking behind doors number two
and three.
You now know what the costs are, what the risks are, and what the po-
tential rewards are. Let’s shop around and see what is behind door number
two. First, you’ll price call options. You are trying to figure out what you
can get for the same amount of money with the same or better returns if the
price of coffee rises—within the realm of reality, of course. For example, you
do not want to buy a call with a strike price of 100. That is not in the realm
of reality. Prices could reach that level, but it would mean the price of coffee
futures would have to more than double in a relatively short period of time.
You will also compare how much a May call option is versus a July call
option. Another determining factor that I use is the amount of time there is
until expiration on the option and the price difference between the same
contract month of the futures contract and the options month. Also, are
May and July futures and options a liquid month? Would an options spread
be beneficial?
Start working the math on the different costs associated with differ-
ent strategies and watch what the parameters of the option strategies are.
The characteristics like limited risk/unlimited reward or limited reward/
unlimited risks should be explored and understood.
When trading a futures contract, you need to analyze which direction
the market may go and when it is going to move. When dealing in options,

P-13_4218 2/24/04 3:32 PM Page 224
224 OPTIONS: A Primer
especially when buying calls and paying premium, you need to know not
only which direction the market may go and when it is going to move, but you
also need to add another factor, an estimate how far the market will move.
Remember, when buying call options, you need to cover the cost of the
premium plus commissions and transaction fees to make a profit at expi-
ration. This is a situation where you could be right about the direction of
prices but still lose money if the market does not move beyond your strike
price at expiration.
For this example, though, a July 55 call option seems to be a better
choice, weighing all the factors of cost, leverage, and risk/reward ratios.
These options expire on June 14, providing 198 days until expiration. The
premium is 500 points so, at $3.75 per point, the cost of the call is $1,875.
The underlying futures contract is at 50.55 cents, which is 445 points out of
the money. So you can use a call to buy an equal amount of coffee that will
give you about the same amount of leverage and risk parameters as enter-
ing the market with one futures contract combined with a put option. The
benefits are you have 2.75 times more life until the option expires using the
outright long July 55 call option instead of the March futures and options
strategy.
In doing the math and analyzing your costs, look at what the probabil-
ity is that the market will hit your targets and look at the possibility of the
market moving in your direction. Now look at the risks and ask yourself if
you can afford to lose if you are wrong. And then ask if the trade is worth
the reward. If you follow this line of thinking, then you may have a better
understanding of what you are doing.
Because options on deliverable futures contracts generally expire the
month before the month of the futures contract itself, it is a good idea to
use the half-and-half rule when buying options outright. If half of the time
value or half of the premium value erodes, reevaluate the position. Either
get out of the options or salvage some premium by liquidating a portion of
your position. You could also adjust your position by adding on more of the
same options to lower your average premium price or you could buy other
options that have more time value. This approach could be considered cost
averaging, but some pundits consider it throwing good money after bad.
Sometimes it pays not to give up on the product or the investment idea; just
admit the timing was wrong and reevaluate.
OPTIONS STRATEGIES
There are so many different option strategies available that it would be dif-
ficult to cover them all. I explain here a few of the more common strategies

P-13_4218 2/24/04 3:32 PM Page 225
Options Strategies 225
that individual investors use, and you can see both the advantages and dis-
advantages for yourself. Again, some strategies use the concept of spreading,
which involves the act of simultaneously buying and writing or selling mul-
tiple option positions. Remember, the more legs or combinations involved,
the more commissions and fees are involved, and you need to include these
costs in your calculations for risk and reward parameters.
Most of the following strategies can be combined with different strike
prices and even options with different calendar months. I hope the names
will help you identify the different characteristics associated with each strat-
egy so you can use them for a quick future reference.
Bull Call Spreads or Debit Spreads
The terms bullandcallimply a bias toward an upward price direction, so you
can assume this strategy involves a spread that goes long the market by
using calls. Debitimplies that you are paying for the trade and that the costs
are being debited from your account.
Other courses or books may refer to this as a vertical bull call spread.
What is usually involved in this strategy is the purchase of a close-to-the-
money or an in-the-money call and at the same time the sale of a further
away strike price call option of the same expiration date. The close-to- or
in-the-money call option may cost a great deal of money as it is near or
lower to where the underlying futures contract price is trading, especially
if there is substantial time remaining until the option’s expiration. Traders
spread this cost off by selling or writing a further out-of-the-money call op-
tion. When you sell or write a call, you collect premium or receive a credit
to your account. This credit reduces the cost of the close-to- or in-the-
money call option.
The profit/loss profile for this strategy is a limited risk and a lower ex-
pense for the investor as premium costs are reduced by the sale of the
higher strike price call. The short call is covered by the long call so there is
a predetermined risk factored in this trade and no unnecessary risks asso-
ciated with option writing. The profit potential is limited to the level between
the two strike prices minus the premium costs, the commission, and fees.
For example, if March silver futures were trading at $4.10 on November
28 and you expected the market price to rise to at least $4.75 by January,
then you might look at buying a March 425 call and at the same time selling
the March 475 call. The strike price difference is 50 cents. If each penny
move in silver futures equals $50, then this is a $2,500 maximum spread dif-
ference. If the cost of doing this trade is, say, a net of $500 for the premium,
$65 per option (times two) for commissions, and $5 per option for fees, then
your total cost is $640. That is your risk and maximum loss amount. Your
maximum profit is $2,500 – $640, or $1,860.

P-13_4218 2/24/04 3:32 PM Page 226
226 OPTIONS: A Primer
Your risk/reward ratio is almost 1 to 3 in this scenario. If silver settles
below $4.25 at expiration, then you would lose $640. If silver does move and
settles above $4.75 at expiration, then your net profit is $1,860. If silver re-
ally took off to $10 per ounce, you are still limited to the $1,860 profit.
Because this is a spread, you can leg into or out of a position. If, on the
one hand, the silver market fell to, say, $3.50 first, both the 425 and the 475
calls would decline in value. If it is financially beneficial and if there is a
good amount of time remaining, then you may consider buying back the
short 475 call and staying long the 425 call, provided that you have enough
free equity in your account to pay the difference of the 425 call. If this is
possible, then you are now in an unlimited profit potential situation and are
not locked into a defined profit situation. If, on the other hand, the market
exploded up to $4.75 first and you sold the 425 call, that would leave you
net short a 475 call with unlimited risk and you would be subject to a mar-
gin requirement. Most traders buy the spread and liquidate the spread, but
the opportunity to leg out of a spread does exist.
Bear Put Spreads or Debit Spreads
The terms bearandputimply a bias toward a downward price move, so you
can assume this strategy involves a spread that goes short the market by
using puts. Again, debitspread means that you are paying for the trade and
the costs are being debited from your account.
Other courses or books may refer to this as a vertical bear put spread.
What is usually involved in this strategy is the purchase of a close-to-the-
money or an in-the-money put and at the same time the sale of a further away
strike price put option of the same expiration date. As mentioned previously,
the close-to- or in-the-money put option may cost a great deal of money as it
is near to the price of the underlying futures contract price, especially if there
is substantial time remaining until the option’s expiration. Traders spread
this cost off by selling or writing a further out of the money put option. When
you sell or write a put, you collect premium or receive a credit in your ac-
count. This credit reduces the cost of the close-to- or in-the-money put.
The profit/ loss profile for this strategy is a limited risk and a lower ex-
pense for the investor as premium costs are reduced by the sale of the higher
strike price call. The profit potential is limited to the level between the two
strike prices minus the premium costs, the commission, and fees. It is the exact
opposite of the bull call spread in the sense of trading market direction.
Vertical Calendar Spreads
Vertical calendar spreads are very similar to the bull call and bear put
spreads except that the word calendar means that the strategy has to do

P-13_4218 2/24/04 3:32 PM Page 227
Options Strategies 227
with different calendar months. The parameters involved in this strategy re-
quire that an investor be accurate not only for the direction of the price
move, but also for the magnitude of the move and the time frame for which
that move occurs. Because it involves similar but not the exact same months,
there is a higher degree of risk associated with this strategy. As a result of
this increased risk factor, there may be—and usually is—a margin deposit
required in addition to the premium, commission, and fees involved if it is
a debit spread.
Many combinations can be used for calendar spreads. Buying a further
out contract month and selling an option with less time until expiration is
generally how you initiate this spread. Some reasons for using this spread
are that there could be disparities between the call options and futures
prices of the respected contract months, volatility levels may vary between
calendar months, or a trader may simply think he or she can time the mar-
ket. In any one of these situations, a trader could take advantage of these
disparities by selling the close-to-the-money and close-to-expiration call
options and at the same time buying further out-of-the-money call options
with more time value.
Let’s say you expect silver to move higher between November 28 and
the time March options expire in February. You believe the market could
rally up to the $4.50 level by then, but could go as high as $5.00 by maybe
March or April. A good example of a calendar spread would be to sell the
March 450 calls and to buy the May 475 calls. If prices do not move, then the
rapid time decay of the close-to-expiration March calls will offset the cost
of the longer-term May calls. Another feature is you can leg out of the short
450 call option if it becomes profitable to do so. This strategy requires that
you monitor the underlying futures contract regularly.
Bull Credit Spreads
You could utilize bull credit spreads if you have a neutral or bullish bias on
the underlying futures market. In this strategy you sell a close-to-the-money
put and buy a further out-of-the-money put. The idea is to collect premium
in a steady or rising market as time decay decreases the option’s value. The
purpose for doing a spread is to limit your risk in case an extremely unpre-
dictable adverse market move occurs. By selling the closer-to-the-money
put, you will be collecting more premium than you pay for the out-of-the-
money put you are buying.
Your risk is limited to the difference between the two strike prices minus
the premiums that you collected. The profit potential is also limited to the
net premium that you collect minus the commissions and related fees.
Again, it is important to know these fees so that you can work them into
your profit/loss calculations.

P-13_4218 2/24/04 3:32 PM Page 228
228 OPTIONS: A Primer
For those who believe in income-generating trades, a good example is
to use this strategy with stock index futures where options expire nearly
every month. Stock index futures attract these option strategists because it
is necessary to sell premium in an option market that has expensive values
to make the risk worth the reward. The higher the volatility, the higher the
premium is, especially for close-to-the-money puts. Stock index options
meet that criteria. In a slowly uptrending market, a trader can put on these
positions and collect premium, knowing what the risk and rewards are.
There is no need for precise timing to execute this trade strategy, only a
conviction that the futures market will remain at or above the same level by
the options expiration day. A margin requirement or good-faith deposit may
be required for this strategy.
Bear Credit Spreads
If you have a neutral or bearish bias on the underlying futures market, you
could use bear credit spreads. In this strategy you sell a close-to-the-money
call and buy a further out-of-the-money call. The idea is to collect premium
in a steady or declining market as time decay decreases the value of the op-
tion. The purpose for doing a spread like this is to capture some premium
and to limit your risk in case of an extremely unpredictable adverse market
move. Your risk is limited and so is your profit. This is the exact opposite
strategy of the bull credit spread. A margin requirement or good-faith de-
posit may be required for this trade as well.
Ratio Spreads
The term ratioimplies that there is a weighted difference for the ratio spread
strategy. This is usually a credit spread or an even cost spread, meaning
traders receive money or pay no premium for entering this trade. For this
illustration, I use a bull call ratio spread. Traders would use this strategy if
they were slightly bullish on the market, buying a close-to-the-money or
in-the-money call option, and then selling or writing two or more out-of-the-
money higher strike price call options. Generally, because of the exposure
from the upside risks, the common strategy is a one to two ratio, buying one
call and selling or writing two call options.
This is usually a strategy that gives you a little premium or credit, which
is one of the motivating factors for deciding to do this particular trade. It
uses the market’s money to help finance your trade or even pays you to
have a position in the market. If you think the price of a particular futures
contract may rise in a certain period of time but may not exceed a certain
level, then this is a good strategy to implement. If the market remains flat or
reverses lower at expiration, then the out-of-the-money call options will off-

P-13_4218 2/24/04 3:32 PM Page 229
Options Strategies 229
set the loss of the close-to-the-money or in-the-money calls and possibly
provide a profit after commission and fees.
Because this particular strategy involves writing or selling calls on a
ratio basis, one or more calls are usually uncovered, and a margin require-
ment or good-faith deposit would be required for this trade. Remember, be-
cause you have at least three positions in this strategy, there are three or
more separate commissions and related fees involved.
As with other spreads, you have the flexibility to leg in or out of one or
any combination of the call options. This is a practice known as adjusting
your position. Anytime you adjust your position, you may be increasing or
reducing your risk. When your exposure to risk increases, usually so does
your margin requirement. The probabilities that an explosive upward price
change will not happen in the market are on your side. However, if an un-
expected event does occur, then this position will expose the trader to an
unlimited loss potential.
A bear ratio put spreadwould be the exact opposite of this trade. In
this strategy, you would buy a close-to-the-money or in-the-money put and
sell two or more further out-of-the-money puts. You would use this strategy
if you are slightly bearish on the market. Again, due to the exposure of the
downside risks, the common strategy is a 1-to-2 ratio where you buy one
put and sell or write two put options. Because this particular strategy in-
volves writing or selling puts on a ratio basis, one or more puts are usually
uncovered and a margin requirement or good-faith deposit would be required
for this trade.
Ratio Back Spreads
The term ratioimplies that there is a weighted difference for a ratio back
spread trade. There is one major twist to this strategy versus a ratio spread,
and that is the term back,which refers to a backward ratio. This spread is
usually a debit spread or an even cost spread, meaning traders may have to
pay a little money or have no premium costs for entering this trade.
A call ratio back spread is an example of this kind of strategy. First, you
would sell or write one close-to- or at-the-money call. You would collect pre-
mium for that call and then use that money to buy or help finance two or
more of the next or higher strike price call options. You would use this strat-
egy if you were very bullish on the market. As a result of writing the call op-
tions, there may be, and usually is, a margin or cash deposit associated with
this strategy in addition to the premium if it is a debit spread, plus commis-
sion and related fees.
In times of extreme volatility when a market is rising, call options may
be inflated or overvalued. These circumstances would be an ideal time to
use this strategy. It would allow you to enter the market using little, if any,

P-13_4218 2/24/04 3:32 PM Page 230
230 OPTIONS: A Primer
out-of-pocket money to pay for the option premiums and still participate in
a market move. Again, with at least three positions, you have three or more
commissions and fees to account for in your profit/loss calculations.
As with the other spreads, you have the flexibility to leg in or out of one
or any combination of the call options to adjust your position. You need to
monitor the underlying futures market and the time value constantly with
this strategy. Generally, this particular strategy is initiated with more than
90 days and not less than 30 days until expiration. You need to evaluate
carefully the out-of-the-money long call option values when the time gets to
within 30 days of expiration as the time decay will erode the value of the
out-of-the-money long calls quickly, leaving exposure to the short close-to-
the-money option.
This strategy allows you to participate in a market move with defined
risk and unlimited profit potential. Although the maximum loss is limited
with this strategy, there are two different loss parameters. One level of your
risk is if the market at expiration is above the strike price of the call option
you sold or wrote and below the two or more calls you bought (plus the pre-
mium, if any, that you paid and commissions and related fees). You need to
calculate the price difference between the two strike price levels to estab-
lish a loss scenario here. The second level of risk is if the market at expira-
tion settles below the call you wrote or sold. Then your risk is limited to the
premium you paid plus the commissions and related fees. The payoff for
the risks involved in this strategy is again the potential for unlimited prof-
its that may occur in a runaway bull market.
Ratio Put Back Spread
A ratio put back spread is the exact opposite of the previous strategy and
involves selling a close-to-the-money or in-the-money put and buying two or
more further out-of-the-money puts. You would use this strategy if you
were extremely bearish on the market. Again, because of the costs associ-
ated with buying options, the common strategy is a one-to-two ratio. Because
this particular strategy involves writing or selling a put and exposes a trader
to a slightly larger risk between the two strike prices, a margin requirement
or good-faith deposit would be required for this type of strategy.
Covered Calls or Puts
The covered calls or puts method is used when you are long the underlying
futures contract and may want to sell or write a call option to collect the
premium from that option. The term covered refers to the fact that if the
market does move higher and if the short call option is assigned a short fu-
tures contract, then there are no inherent risks as the option writer holds

P-13_4218 2/24/04 3:32 PM Page 231
Options Strategies 231
the underlying futures contract that would, in effect, offset the position at
a profit.
The purpose for this type of strategy is to earn money if the market
price remains stable or lower than the strike price of the option at expira-
tion. There are no additional margin requirements involved for this strategy
other than the initial margin requirement for the underlying futures con-
tract, but there are additional commission and transaction fees involved.
The drawback to this strategy is that if the market does take off to the up-
side, the covered call option strategist profit potential is limited. Because
they are long a futures contract, the risk parameter is still unlimited.
The exact opposite is true for a covered put option writer. You would
be short a futures contract and would sell or write an out-of-the-money put
to collect the premium.
Synthetic Futures Positions
The term synthetic futures positionsrefers to the effect of using a combi-
nation of option strategies that will, in essence, give you more or less simi-
lar results and consequences that are much like an underlying futures
position. A synthetic long futures contract is a long call and a short put. In
this case you are basically financing part or all of the call purchase with the
premium that was collected from the put option. This is another example of
using the market’s money to buy the premium rather than debiting your
account.
Because this strategy also requires writing options, you should be aware
that the risks are unlimited. However, the profit potential is unlimited as
well. As a result of the risks involved, there is a margin deposit required in
addition to the commission and related transaction fees. A synthetic short
futures contract would be the exact opposite, a long put and a short call.
Delta Neutral Option Spread
The term deltarefers to the calculation of the percent change you can expect
in an option’s value based on a price move in the underlying futures contract.
A delta neutral option spread usually is a strategy that involves simultane-
ously selling an equal amount of out-of-the-money calls and out-of-the-money
puts. Looking at the delta figures, you want to write both the put and the call
with the same delta numbers or balance a futures position with the number
and type of options that keep delta for the total position near zero.
This strategy is used when you believe the market may remain in a trad-
ing range or in a sideways channel. The theory behind the delta neutral op-
tion spread strategy is simple. If the underlying futures market moves higher,
then call options should appreciate and put options should depreciate. Under

P-13_4218 2/24/04 3:32 PM Page 232
232 OPTIONS: A Primer
ideal circumstances, the value of your net position may not change much,
if at all, keeping the monetary difference of the equity in your trading ac-
count neutral. Remember, with every change in the underlying futures con-
tract, there will be a change in the delta. If the market trades lower again,
then the values of the put options should increase and the values of the
calls should depreciate.
You profit from this type of strategy when the futures market remains
in the trading range at expiration or the time decay erodes the premium
values to a point that the trader can cover both sides of the trade with a
profit after commission and fees. Generally, it is possible to cover the posi-
tion at any time prior to options expiration. The concept is to be as equal or
neutral in regards to the delta number as you can at all times.
Many variables can be applied to the delta neutral option spread. For
instance, you could sell one put and then sell a combination of calls. If the
delta on an out-of-the-money put is, say, 39 and you think the underlying
market is too close to the strike price of a call with a delta of 39, then you
could sell three calls of a higher strike price that may only have a delta of
13. So 3 ×13 = 39. You are short one put with a delta of 39 and short three
calls with a combined delta of 39, keeping your total position neutral or
equal on either side. This strategy can be adjusted if the market breaks out
of its trading range by adding more short calls or puts.
Because this strategy requires writing options, you should know that
the risks are unlimited while the profit potential is limited. As a result of the
risks involved, there is a margin deposit required in addition to the com-
mission and related transaction fees.
Long Straddles
I was once told to think about riding a horse when thinking about the con-
cept of long straddles. When you ride a horse, your legs are straddled on
both sides of the animal’s back. The same is true with this trading strategy.
When you initiate this strategy, you are on both sides of the market by pur-
chasing a call and a put option, usually at the same time. Generally speak-
ing, you buy at-the-money or close-to-the-money calls and puts within the
same expiration month.
You might initiate this strategy when you have no opinion on market di-
rection other than that you believe a breakout of the current trend or trad-
ing range is imminent. The risks involved are limited to the premium you
pay for both of the options if the market price of the underlying futures con-
tract does not move by the options expiration date plus the commissions
and related transaction fees. The parameter for profit potential is unlimited
once the costs of the option’s premiums, commissions, and fees are cov-

P-13_4218 2/24/04 3:32 PM Page 233
Options Strategies 233
ered. As a spread, you do have the flexibility to leg out of one side of the
straddle if your market opinion changes and market conditions permit.
Short Strangles
To help me understand short strangles, I was told to think about what stran-
gling someone is like. When implementing this strategy, you are writing or
selling both puts and calls and you want to choke or suck the premium val-
ues out of the market. Short strangles are very similar to the delta neutral
option spreads except that you are not so concerned about keeping the
delta equal.
Generally, you sell both at-the-money or close-to-the-money puts and
calls because you have an opinion that the market does not have any defi-
nite trend direction and prices may stagnate for a while. Time decay will
usually erode the premium values, and that is what you want. This is really
an unlimited risk spread, which involves two commissions and related fees.
Again, because this strategy requires writing or selling options, you should
know that the risks are unlimited while the profit potential is limited. As a
result of the risks involved, a margin deposit is required.
This is a short version of some of the more popular options strategies.
There are many other variables to trading options. If you are not familiar
with how options work, my suggestion is that you read up on the various
strategies. Many books have been written on the subject. If you want to get
a little deeper into options, anything written by Larry McMillan will give you
a solid education.

P-13_4218 2/24/04 3:32 PM Page 234

P-14_4218 2/24/04 3:34 PM Page 235
CHAPTER 14
Closing Bell
My Top 10 List
Whatever the mind of man can conceive and be-
lieve, it can achieve.
—Napoleon Hill (Think and Grow Rich,1937)
T
o sum up this book, I wanted to deliver trading methods, techniques,
and terms in a logical and simple approach. I certainly gained a lot
from writing this book as the mental cobwebs were cleaned out, and
I was able to get an exciting and comprehensive refresher course from all
the old techniques and the new developments and products that have been
introduced throughout the years. I sincerely hope that this information was
enlightening for the novice as well as for the advanced trader.
This is my first book. It combines two of the most exciting and volatile
trading decades in the history of speculating in futures and the relatively new
world of options trading. No matter how much I study and no matter how
much research I do, there is still not a perfect trading plan that will generate
profits every time I trade.
The goal that every trader wants to attain is to just make sure that the
profits exceed the losses in the end. There are two ways to achieve this goal.
One is to reduce losers and let winners ride so the capital amount that is
taken in exceeds the losses. The other method is to have more winning trades
than losers. I am a firm believer that the markets act randomly. Not every
pattern develops as expected, not all support levels hold, and there certainly
are plenty of instances of head fakes, false breakouts, and just plain old bad
trading days.
You can take many different approaches to trading. Each individual
trader must try to find what works best for him or her. You need to discover
235

P-14_4218 2/24/04 3:34 PM Page 236
236 CLOSING BELL: My Top 10 List
whether you can emotionally handle extreme stress from holding large po-
sitions overnight or finding a niche in day-trading techniques or simply de-
veloping the patience needed for long-term trend trades.
The purpose of this book is just to show you what works for me and to
describe some of the techniques that I have used and picked up over the
years. One casual observation is that I have noticed a common denominator
among the more successful traders: They exhibit a genuine sense of confi-
dence and are hard-working and well-organized in their thoughts and ac-
tions. Some are a little cocky but, for the most part, the more successful
traders are more reserved or quiet individuals. Maybe that comes from the
concept of “walking quietly but carrying a big wallet.”
In this business you need to start with a desire to make money and, of
course, the old saying applies, “It takes money to make money.” You do
need trading risk capital. Again, my definition of risk capital is money you
can afford to lose, money that you are not afraid of losing, and money that,
if you do lose it, will not make you hold a grudge against the markets. That
statement was made as a reminder that education is expensive, bad trades
do happen and that if you lose, then you need to reevaluate and reeducate,
and then understand what went wrong.
A very successful trader once told me that fundamental, technical, or any
other analysis “won’t do me a damn bit of good if I don’t have the money to
trade or the courage to pull the trigger.” You also need confidence, you need
to rely on your own trading skills, and you absolutely need to be honest
with yourself and admit when you are wrong, then act accordingly.
For those who do experience trading success, take money out of your
trading account! Diversify your trading profits. One great analyst and trader,
Fibonacci expert Joe Dinapoli, told me before going on the radio show that
he likes to buy selected properties in real estate, whether it is in Bangkok,
Massachusetts, or Florida.
I have heard many a trader start out with $5,000 or $10,000, make a large
sum trading a particular market move, and decide to just build their ac-
count. Quite frankly, I really do not remember any of those people achiev-
ing that goal. I have seen traders give most, if not all and more, back to the
markets. One reason is they become overconfident. They think, “If I can take
$5,000 to $30,000, maybe I can take $30,000 to $1 million!” Greed sets in, they
trade larger positions, take on more risk, and forget what got them their ini-
tial profits. If you are a one-lot or two-lot size trader, then take money out
of the market on a consistent basis and reinvest elsewhere. Wealth creation
is the goal, and diversification is the key to success in life.
There are no guarantees that you will become a more successful trader
as a result of reading this book. However, I do believe it will help you achieve
a better understanding of this business and excite your interest to continue
your technical and fundamental analysis of the markets. Every individual

P-14_4218 2/24/04 3:34 PM Page 237
Thoughts from Other Experts 237
has a desire to improve his or her life: Wishing, dreaming and goal-setting
are all fine traits to have. The biggest obstacles to success are the inner
demons or character defects we have as human beings. I am not the first
and will certainly not be the last to say this, but understanding human psy-
chology is a vital part of trading.
The importance of gaining control of some of the negative personality
traits, which we all have as human beings, cannot be overemphasized if you
want to be a successful trader. These traits, if not overcome quickly in the
early stages of trading, can lead to destructive trading habits and eventually
the demoralizing agony of defeat. Although this book was intended mainly
to illustrate the importance of integrating pivot point analysis with candle-
stick charting signals and other indicators, I really can’t stress enough the
importance of human psychology.
THOUGHTS FROM OTHER EXPERTS
Not only do I believe that psychology is important for trading, but so do some
of my peers and those who I consider to be master traders and technicians.
Here are comments from some of the top experts in their field, highly
respected traders who were kind enough to appear as guests on my radio
program. (The recordings are archived and can be heard on my web site
www.nationalfutures.com.)
• When I asked Larry Pesavento, president of Trading Tutor, which book
(out of the seven or so that he wrote) he would recommend to a new
trader, I thought he would say something about pattern recognition com-
bined with Fibonacci analysis. His answer surprised me. His choice was
Mark Douglas’s book, The Disciplined Trader.
• I also asked Alan Farley, author of The Master Swing Trader,writer for
the street.com, and founder of the hard right edge.com, what book he
would recommend, giving him an opportunity to plug his very success-
ful and highly acclaimed book. Instead, he admitted that his favorite
trading book was also Mark Douglas’s The Disciplined Trader. Farley
revealed that he reads three to five pages of that book every night be-
fore he goes to bed.
• I had the opportunity to have John Bollinger, Chartered Market Techni-
cian and creator of the famed Bollinger bands, as my radio guest twice in
2003. (As an aside here, just to show you the interesting backgrounds
that some traders and analysts have, Bollinger was a professional gripper
and a cameraman in Hollywood where he says he “tinkered” with com-
puters. He had a strong passion for the markets and began to trade his
own money. Much to most people’s surprise, he was never a broker.)

P-14_4218 2/24/04 3:34 PM Page 238
238 CLOSING BELL: My Top 10 List
Bollinger’s work with computers dates back nearly 30 years. Not only
does his expertise on Bollinger bands benefit all kinds of traders from
individuals to institutions and from stocks to commodities, but his stud-
ies on group sectors and the equity markets also are immense. (His lat-
est achievement is found at www.powergroup.com.)
The first time he appeared on my program, he offered fabulous ad-
vice on the market and instructed listeners with a real-time example on
using Bollinger bands on the mini-sized Dow futures contract. With the
Dow at 8500 at the time and at the top band of resistance, he explained
how the market could “walk the band” and continue higher. The Dow,
in fact, managed to rally another 800 points.
As you can imagine, this seemed like a good time to ask, “John,
what do you think folks should do? Buy your book?” His surprising an-
swer: Go to your local community college and take a course in human
behavioral psychology. (For the record, we also did discuss his book,
and he offered to send an autographed copy if purchased directly from
his web site at www.bollingerbands.com. I believe that is a standing
order. If not for the education, you might want it as a collector’s item
from one of the great market technicians.)
I also asked Bollinger what was the first book he read on technical
analysis, and he said it was one of Martin Pring’s books. Interestingly
enough, I had had Pring on the radio show earlier in the year and asked
him what was the first book he read on technical analysis. He said Ed-
wards and Magee’s Technical Analysis of Stock Trends. That also was
one of the first books I had ever read on technical analysis in the early
1980s. It is still a classic to this day, and many principles I use have
come from those teachings.
MY FAVORITE TOP 10 TRADING THOUGHTS
Based on my own experiences as a trader and on conversations with many
top analysts and traders on my radio program and elsewhere, here is a top-10
list of observations I would like to pass along to you after 23 years in the trad-
ing business. You may recognize some of these thoughts as market clichés,
but they have stood the test of time and should be helpful for you as well.
1. You only have three choices when you are in a bad position, and it is not
hard to figure out what to do: (1) Get out, (2) double up, or (3) spread it
off. I have always found getting out to be the best of all three choices.
2. No opinion on the market or you are doubtful about market direction?
Then stay out. Remember, when in doubt, stay out.

P-14_4218 2/24/04 3:34 PM Page 239
My Favorite Top 10 Trading Thoughts 239
3. Don’t ever let anyone know how big your wallet is, and don’t ever let
anyone know how small it is either.
4. If you snooze, you lose. Know your markets, when they trade, and what
reports will affect the market price.
5. The markets will always let you in on the losers; the market’s job is to
keep you out of winners. Dump the dogs and ride the winning tide.
6. Stops are notfor sissies.
7. Plan your trade, then trade your plan. He who fails to plan, plans to fail.
8. Buy the rumor and sell the fact. Watch for volatility in these situations;
it usually marks tops or bottoms in the markets.
9. Buy low, sell high. Or buy it when nobody wants it, and sell it when
everybody has to have it!
10. It’s okay to lose your shirt, just don’t lose your pants; that is where your
wallet is.
One last thought I want to leave with you. It applies not only to every-
day life but to trading the markets as well: Success is measured not so much
by the wealth or position you have gained, but rather by the obstacles you
have overcome to succeed!
Good luck in all of your investing and trading endeavors. And, remem-
ber, you are trading to take money out of the market, not to build a big ac-
count to satisfy your ego or to invest in your grandchildren’s retirement fund.
Be sure to take money out of the market for yourself and immediate needs
so you can enjoy the fruits of your labors.

P-14_4218 2/24/04 3:34 PM Page 240

P-15_4218 2/24/04 3:39 PM Page 241
Glossary
abandoned baby Candlestick pattern that resembles a bar chart version of an is-
land top or bottom formation. Generally, the gap island candle is a doji.
all or none A specific order that instructs the floor broker to fill all contracts in
an order or none at all.
American-style option An option that trades on U.S. exchanges and can be ex-
ercised at any time during the life of the option prior to expiration.
arbitrage The action of a simultaneous buy and sell of a similar or like commod-
ity or futures product that may be made in different contract months, on different
exchanges, or in different countries to profit from a discrepancy in price.
assignment The notification to a holder of a short option position that his or her
position has been exercised by the opposite party (buyer), and he or she has been
issued a position in the underlying derivative market. The holder of a short call would
be assigned a short position at the strike price level, and the holder of a short put
option would be assigned a long position at the strike price level.
associated person An individual who solicits orders, customers, or customer
funds on behalf of a futures commission merchant, an introducing broker, a Com-
modity Trading Advisor, or a Commodity Pool Operator.
at the money When the strike price of an option is equal or very close to the price
of the underlying derivative market price.
automatic exercise A procedure whereby options that are in the money at expi-
ration are exercised without instruction from the option holder. Buyers of options
may abandon such options if they did not offset the position, but need to notify their
FCMs and or instruct their brokers to do so.
backwardation A condition in which futures prices are lower in each succeeding
contract month rather than higher in a normal carry charge market due to a supply
or demand imbalance.
bar charting A method of charting a period’s price action as a vertical line that
represents the high and low with a small horizontal line marking the open and clos-
ing prices.
241

P-15_4218 2/24/04 3:39 PM Page 242
242 GLOSSARY
basis The price difference between a futures contract and the underlying cash
market. The basis can be affected by supply/demand functions and carrying costs.
bearish A downtrending market or a period in which prices are declining.
belt-hold candle A candle that can be a bearish or bullish candle. The bullish can-
dle opens on the low, forming a flat bottom or shaved-bottom appearance. The
bearish candle opens at the high, forming a flat top or shaved-top look.
beta An option term that measures the percentage of price move of the option in
relation to the underlying futures contract.
bid A reference to buy at a certain price.
Black–Scholes The standard formula for pricing the value of options. Fischer
Black and Myron Scholes developed the calculation.
breakaway gap A chartist term that applies when prices move substantially away
from a congestion or consolidation area. The gap area leaves a space or hole on the
charts.
broker A registered representative of a brokerage firm who is paid commissions
for accepting and placing orders for customers.
bullish An uptrending market or a period in which prices appreciate in value.
bull spread In most commodities and financial instruments, the term refers to
buying the nearby month and selling the deferred month to profit from the change
in the price relationship.
butterfly spread Buying and selling two spreads in opposite directions with the
center delivery month common to both spreads.
calendar spread An options trade where one buys and sells options in different
expiration months in the same underlying contract.
call option A derivative product that gives a buyer the right, but not the obliga-
tion, to be long or to be a buyer of an underlying derivative product at the strike
price level.
candlestick charting Charting method that provides a visual presentation of the re-
lationship between the open, high, low, and close. Color schemes are used to illustrate
a candle’s real body, which is the difference between the close and the open. If the
close is lower than the open, the body is usually shown as black; if the close is higher
than the open, the body is usually shown as clear or white.
carrying charges The cost associated with holding or storing cash or physical
commodities and financial instruments. Three variables are involved: storage, in-
surance, and finance charges or interest payments on borrowed money.
cash settlement A means to settle a contract on the last trading day. Instead of
physical delivery, the product is settled by the contract’s cash value. Stock indexes,
the U.S. Dollar Index, and a number of other futures contracts are cash settled.

P-15_4218 2/24/04 3:39 PM Page 243
Glossary 243
clearinghouse A company or separate corporation of an exchange that is respon-
sible for reconciling trading accounts, clearing trades, collecting and maintaining
margin monies, regulating delivery, and reporting trading data. Clearinghouses act as
third parties to all futures and options contracts, acting as a buyer to every clearing
member seller and a seller to every clearing member buyer.
clearing member A firm that holds seats on an exchange and has the right to
clear and reconcile trades of individual floor traders on that exchange.
close The settlement or last price at the end of a trading session established by
the exchange.
commodity A physical product that is used in commerce and is traded mainly on
a regulated commodity exchange. The types of products range from agricultural,
such as meats and grains, to metals to petroleum. The term is also often applied to
financial instruments such as foreign currencies, stock index futures, single stock
futures, and various interest rate vehicles such as T-notes and T-bonds.
Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) The federal regulatory agency
overseeing the U.S. futures industry, established under the Commodity Futures
Trading Commission Act, as amended in 1974 and renewed periodically. The com-
mission consists of five commissioners, one of whom is designated as chairman, all
appointed by the president subject to Senate confirmation, and is independent of all
cabinet departments. This agency regulates all nonbank Forex dealings as well as
the futures industry.
commodity pool An enterprise in which funds contributed by a number of persons
are combined for the purpose of trading futures contracts or commodity options.
Commodity Trading Advisor (CTA) A specific registration that requires an asso-
ciated person to be registered with the National Futures Association for two years.
A registered individual or entity can then advise others, for compensation or profit,
about buying or selling futures contracts or commodity options. A CTA can exercise
trading authority over a customer’s account as well as provide research and analy-
sis through newsletters or other media.
coupon The interest rate on a debt instrument expressed in terms of a percent on
an annualized basis that the issuer guarantees to pay the holder until maturity.
crop reports Reports compiled and released by private forecasting agencies and
the U.S. Department of Agriculture providing pertinent information regarding esti-
mates on planted acreage, yield, and expected production as well as the growing
conditions and progress of the crops.
crush spread The purchase of soybean futures and the simultaneous sale of soy-
bean oil and soybean meal futures contracts.
daily trading limit The maximum price range set by the exchange each day for a
contract.

P-15_4218 2/24/04 3:39 PM Page 244
244 GLOSSARY
day traders Speculators who trade positions during the day in the derivative mar-
kets and liquidate them prior to the close to avoid exposure to adverse risk overnight.
dead cross A chart pattern whereby a sell signal is generated when one or more
shorter-term moving averages cross below a longer-term moving average.
deferred month The more distant month in which futures trading is taking place,
as opposed to the active nearby or front contract delivery month.
delivery The transfer of a cash commodity from the seller of a futures contract to
the buyer of a futures contract. Exchanges are responsible for establishing the spe-
cific quantity, quality, and procedures for physical delivery.
delta A calculation percentage measure for how much an option premium
changes based on the change in the underlying derivative product, interpreted as
the probability that the option will be in the money by expiration.
discount rate The interest rate charged on loans by the Federal Reserve to mem-
ber banks.
doji A candlestick term used to describe a time period when the open and close are
nearly identical. It is a strong sell signal at a top, but a cautionary warning at bottoms.
Elliott wave Analysis theory that was developed by Ralph N. Elliott based on the
premise that prices move in two basic types of waves. Five impulse waves move
with the main trend and three corrective waves move against the main trend.
Eurodollars U.S. dollars on deposit with banks outside of the United States.
exchange for physicals (EFP) A transaction generally used by two hedgers who
want to exchange futures for cash positions.
exercise The process by which options traders implement their right to convert
an options position into the underlying futures or derivative market. For example,
buyers of call options would convert their calls for a long position, and buyers of put
options would convert their puts to a short futures contract.
expiration date The established time when options expire.
face value The amount of money printed on the face of the certificate of a secu-
rity; the original dollar amount of indebtedness incurred.
falling three methods A bearish continuation pattern similar to the Western ver-
sion of a bear flag. It can be a four-candle pattern, but usually has five candles.
Federal funds The interest rate charged to member banks on money loaned by
other member banks.
Federal Reserve System The central banking system in the United States, cre-
ated by the Federal Reserve Act in 1913, designed to assist the nation in attaining its
economic and financial goals. The structure of the Federal Reserve System includes
a Board of Governors, the Federal Open Market Committee, and 12 Federal Reserve
banks.

P-15_4218 2/24/04 3:39 PM Page 245
Glossary 245
Fibonacci numbers and ratios The sequence of numbers that adds a number to
the preceding number to produce a series that continues to infinity. The ratios are
the math calculations derived from dividing the series numbers or in some cases the
square root of the numbers. The important ratio numbers are 0.38 percent, 0.618
percent, 50 percent and 100 percent.
fill-or-kill A customer order that is a price limit order that must be filled immedi-
ately or canceled.
financial instrument A document having monetary value or recording a mone-
tary transaction. There are two basic types. One is a debt instrument, which is a loan
with an agreement to pay back funds with interest. The other is an equity security,
which is a share or stock in a company.
first notice day According to Chicago Board of Trade rules, the first day on
which a notice of intent to deliver a commodity in fulfillment of a given month’s fu-
tures contract can be made by the clearinghouse to a buyer. The clearinghouse also
informs the sellers with whom they have been matched. Each exchange sets its own
guidelines and rules for this process.
floor broker An individual who executes orders for the purchase or sale of any
commodity futures or options contract on any contract market for any other person.
floor trader An individual who executes trades for the purchase or sale of any
commodity futures or options contract on any contract market for such individual’s
own account.
forex market Usually refers to the over-the-counter market where buyers and
sellers conduct foreign currency exchange business.
forward contract A cash contract in which a seller agrees to deliver a specific
cash commodity to a buyer sometime in the future. Forward contracts, in contrast
to futures contracts, are privately negotiated and are not standardized.
full carrying charge market A futures market where the price difference be-
tween delivery months reflects the total costs of interest, insurance, and storage.
fundamental analysis A method of anticipating future price movement using
supply and demand information.
futures commission merchant (FCM) An individual or organization that solicits
or accepts orders to buy or sell futures contracts or options on futures and accepts
money or other assets from customers to support such orders. Also referred to as
commission houseorwire house.
futures contract A legally binding agreement, made on an exchange trading floor
or via computer, to buy or sell a commodity or financial instrument at a specified
time in the future. Futures contracts are standardized as to the quality, quantity, and
delivery time and location for each market. These guidelines are established by the
exchange and overseen by the CFTC.

P-15_4218 2/24/04 3:39 PM Page 246
246 GLOSSARY
futures exchange A central marketplace with established rules and regulations
where buyers and sellers meet to trade futures and options on futures contracts.
gamma An option valuation term used to measure how fast delta changes, given
a unit change in the underlying futures price.
Gann, William D. An early pioneer in technical analysis. He is credited with de-
veloping mathematical systems based on Fibonacci numbers, cycles of various
lengths, and the Gann square.
GLOBEX A global electronic trading system used on the Chicago Mercantile Ex-
change (CME).
golden cross A bullish term used to describe a chart pattern when one or more
shorter-term moving averages cross above a longer-term moving average. It gener-
ally generates a buy signal.
grain terminal Large grain elevator facility with the capacity to ship grain by rail
or barge to domestic or foreign markets.
gravestone doji A candlestick pattern that represents a wide-range period where
the open and close are near the low of the period’s range.
gross domestic product (GDP) The value of all final goods and services pro-
duced by an economy over a particular time period, normally a year.
gross national product (GNP) Gross domestic product plus the income accruing
to domestic residents as a result of investments abroad less income earned in do-
mestic markets accruing to foreigners abroad.
hammer A candlestick pattern that forms at bottoms. At market tops the same
construction is called a hanging man. The shadow is generally twice the length of
the real body.
harami A two-candle pattern that marks tops and bottoms. The second candle of
this formation is contained within the real body of the prior session’s candle.
hedger An individual or company owning or planning to own the underlying
product and concerned that the cost of the market may change before either buying
or selling it in the cash market. A hedger achieves protection against changing cash
prices by purchasing (selling) futures contracts of the same or similar commodity
and later offsetting that position by selling (purchasing) futures contracts of the
same quantity and type as the initial transaction.
hedging The practice of offsetting the price risk inherent in any cash market po-
sition by taking an equal but opposite position in the futures market. Hedgers use
the futures markets to protect their businesses from adverse price changes.
high wave A candle that has a wide range with a small real body that develops in
the middle of that range. It has significance as a reversal formation, especially if
several of these form in succession.

P-15_4218 2/24/04 3:39 PM Page 247
Glossary 247
horizontal spread The purchase of either a call or put option and the simultane-
ous sale of the same type of option with typically the same strike price but with a
different expiration month. Also referred to as a calendar spread.
implied volatility The term used to measure an expected price move based on the
underlying futures market for an option.
index option Options on a stock index, either cash or futures.
initial margin The good-faith deposit that must be posted initially to enter into a
futures position. Margins are subject to change without notice. It is the responsibil-
ity of the exchanges to set these price amounts.
intercommodity spread The purchase of a given delivery month of one futures
market and the simultaneous sale of the same delivery month of a different, but re-
lated, futures market.
interdelivery spread The purchase of one delivery month of a given futures con-
tract and simultaneous sale of another delivery month of the same commodity on
the same exchange. Also referred to as an intramarketorcalendar spread.
intermarket spread The sale of a given delivery month of a futures contract on
one exchange and the simultaneous purchase of the same delivery month and fu-
tures contract on another exchange.
in-the-money option An option having intrinsic value. A call option is in-the-
money if its strike price is below the current price of the underlying futures con-
tract. A put option is in-the-money if its strike price is above the current price of the
underlying futures contract.
intrinsic value The amount by which an option is in-the-money.
introducing broker (IB) A person or organization that solicits or accepts orders
to buy or sell futures contracts or commodity options but does not accept money or
other assets from customers to support such orders.
inverted market A futures market in which the relationship between two deliv-
ery months of the same commodity is abnormal.
island chart pattern A pattern formed when the market gaps in one direction and
then in the next session, gaps open in the opposite direction leaving the prior pe-
riod’s bar or range isolated on the chart like an island. At tops this is extremely bear-
ish; at bottoms it is considered extremely bullish. This is a rare chart pattern and is
similar in nature to the Japanese candlestick pattern called the abandon baby.
J-Trader An independent electronic trading order-entry platform provider by
Pats Systems that routes orders to exchange electronic trading systems.
lagging indicators Market indicators showing the general direction of the econ-
omy and confirming or denying the trend implied by the leading indicators.
last trading day (LTD) The final day when trading may occur in a given futures
or options contract month.

P-15_4218 2/24/04 3:39 PM Page 248
248 GLOSSARY
leading indicators Market indicators that signal the state of the economy for the
coming months. Some of the leading indicators include average manufacturing
workweek, initial claims for unemployment insurance, orders for consumer goods
and material, percentage of companies reporting slower deliveries, change in man-
ufacturers’ unfilled orders for durable goods, plant and equipment orders, new
building permits, index of consumer expectations, change in material prices, prices
of stocks, and change in money supply.
LEAPS Long-term Equity Anticipation Securities. These are options that have an
extended life as long as five years. Generally used for options on stocks.
leverage The ability to control large dollar amounts of a commodity with a com-
paratively small amount of capital.
limit order An order in which the customer sets a limit on the price or time of
execution.
liquid A characteristic of a security or commodity market with enough units out-
standing to allow large transactions without a substantial change in price. Institu-
tional investors are inclined to seek out liquid investments so that their trading
activity will not influence the market price.
liquidate Closing a position with an offsetting transaction in the futures markets.
A long holder would sell and a short holder would buy to make their market posi-
tion flat.
long The position in a market when one buys contracts or owns a cash commodity.
long-legged doji A specific doji that forms when the open and close occurs near
the middle of a wide-range trading session.
maintenance margin A set minimum margin that a customer must maintain in
his or her margin account. If the cash amount in the trading account drops below
this level and a margin call is generated, the trader must either send additional
funds to get the account back to the initial margin level or liquidate positions to sat-
isfy the call.
managed futures Client assets are held in an account that is traded by profes-
sional money managers known as Commodity Trading Advisors on a discretionary
basis, using global futures markets as an investment medium.
margin call A call from a clearinghouse to a clearing member or from a broker-
age firm to a customer to bring margin deposits up to a required minimum level.
marked-to-market The act of debiting or crediting a margin account based on
the close of that day’s trading session.
market order An order to buy or sell a futures contract of a given delivery month
to be filled at the best possible price and as soon as possible.
market profile A method of charting that analyzes price and volume in specific
time brackets.

P-15_4218 2/24/04 3:39 PM Page 249
Glossary 249
momentum A measurement of the rate of change in prices.
morning doji star A bullish three-candle formation where the middle candle is
formed by a doji.
moving average A technical price analysis method calculated by adding the
prices for a predetermined set number of periods and then dividing by that number
of periods.
naked option position Going short premium, either a put or call, without having
the underlying derivative product to cover the option position.
National Futures Association (NFA) The self-regulatory agency for futures and
options on futures markets. The primary responsibilities of the NFA are to enforce
ethical standards and customer protection rules, screen futures professionals for
membership, audit and monitor professionals for financial and general compliance
rules, and provide for arbitration of futures-related disputes.
nearby month The futures contract month closest to expiration. Also called the
spot month.
offer A price at which one will sell a commodity. Buyers must accept the ask
priceor offer price to execute a trade.
offset Taking a second futures or options position opposite to the initial or open-
ing position.
one cancels other A contingency order instructing a broker to cancel one side of
a two-sided entry order.
opening range A range of prices at which buy and sell transactions take place
during the first minute at the opening of trading for most markets.
open interest The total number of futures or options contracts of a given com-
modity that have not yet been offset by an opposite futures or option transaction
nor fulfilled by delivery of the commodity or option exercise. Each open transaction
has a buyer and a seller, but for calculation of open interest, only one side of the
contract is counted.
open outcry Method of public auction for making verbal bids and offers in the
trading pits or rings of futures exchanges.
option A contract that conveys the right, but not the obligation, to buy or sell a
particular item at a certain price for a limited time.
out-of-the-money option An option with no intrinsic value. A call whose strike
price is above the current futures price or a put whose strike price is below the cur-
rent futures price.
overbought A technical situation when the price of a specific move has risen too
far too fast and is set up for a corrective pullback or a period of consolidation.
oversold The opposite of overbought, when the market price has fallen too far
too fast and is in a position for a corrective rally or a period of consolidation.

P-15_4218 2/24/04 3:39 PM Page 250
250 GLOSSARY
par The face value of a security. For example, a bond selling at par is worth the
same dollar amount as it was issued for or at which it will be redeemed at maturity.
piercing pattern A candlestick formation involving two candles formed at bot-
toms of market moves. The first candle is a long dark candle; the second candle
opens lower than the dark candle’s low and closes more than halfway above the
first candle’s real body.
pit The area on the trading floor where futures and options on futures contracts
are bought and sold. It is customary for Chicago markets to refer to the individual
commodity trading areas as pits. New York markets refer to these areas as rings.
pivot points The mathematical calculation formula used to determined the sup-
port or resistance ranges in a given time period. These formulas can be used to cal-
culate intraday, daily, weekly, monthly, or quarterly ranges.
point-and-figure A charting style that tracks the market’s price action by repre-
senting increases by plotting a column of Xs on a chart and downside corrections
with columns of Os. Time is not an issue with this method, which uses only pure
price movement.
position Either a long or short trade that puts a trader into the market, it can also
refer to how many contracts a trader is holding.
premium The dollar value amount placed on an option.
prime rate Interest rate charged by major banks to their most creditworthy
customers.
producer price index An index that shows the cost of goods and services to pro-
ducers and wholesalers.
purchase and sale A round-turn trade transaction in the futures market.
put option An option that gives the option buyer the right, but not the obligation,
to sell the underlying instrument at the strike price on or before the expiration date.
range The price established by the high and low of a given time period.
real body The section of a candlestick defined as the area established between
the opening and closing of a particular time period.
relative strength index (RSI) A technical indicator used to determine if a mar-
ket is in an overbought or oversold condition. This indicator was developed by
Welles Wilder Jr. to help determine market reversals.
resistance A level above the current market price that attracts sellers, thus cre-
ating a ceiling for prices.
rickshaw doji A doji that has an unusually large trading range.
scalper A trader who trades for small, short-term profits.
settlement price The last price paid for a commodity on any trading day. The ex-
change clearinghouse determines a firm’s net gains or losses, margin requirements,
and the next day’s price limits on each contract’s established settlement price. Also
referred to as the daily settlement priceordaily closing price.

P-15_4218 2/24/04 3:39 PM Page 251
Glossary 251
shadow The area on a candlestick that depicts trading that occurs at prices out-
side the range of the real body for a period. The upper shadow is between the high
and the open or close, the lower shadow is the difference between the low and the
open or close.
shooting star The candle that forms at tops of markets where the shadow is at
least twice the length of the real body and the real body forms near the low for the
session with little or no shadow at the bottom. This candle resembles an inverted
hammer.
short The position in a market when one sells a contract with the intention of
buying back at a lower price for a profit or at a loss if the price is higher. Option
traders would be considered short if they were a writer of that option.
speculator An investor who is looking to profit from buying or selling derivative
products with the anticipation of profiting from price moves by trading in and out
of his or her positions.
spinning tops A candle where the real body is small and has a large range with
shadows at both ends.
spot Usually refers to the cash market or front contract of a physical commodity
that is available for immediate delivery.
spread The price difference between two related markets or futures contracts.
spreading The simultaneous buying and selling of two related markets with the
expectation that a profit will be made when the position is offset.
stochastics A technical indicator created by George C. Lane that gives an indi-
cation when a market is overbought or oversold.
stock index An indicator used to measure and report value changes in a selected
group of stocks.
stop-limit order A variation of a stop order in which a trade must be executed at
the exact price or no worse than a specific price. The limit side of the order limits
the slippage. It does not ensure a trade will be executed if the next best price is be-
yond the limit side of the stop order until the limit or stop price is reached again.
stop order An order to buy or sell when the market reaches a specified point. A
stop order to buy becomes a market order when the futures contract trades at or
above the stop price. A stop order to sell becomes a market order when the futures
contract trades at or below the stop price.
strike price The price at which the futures contract underlying a call or put op-
tion can be purchased or sold.
support A price level that attracts buyers.
technical analysis The study of price and or volume to anticipate future price
moves. Studies can include price patterns, mathematical calculations, and data re-
garding the open, high, low, and close of a market.

P-15_4218 2/24/04 3:39 PM Page 252
252 GLOSSARY
theta The calculation associated with determining the value of an option on a the-
oretical basis in a given time period.
three crows A candlestick pattern consisting of three dark candles that close on
or at their lows. After an extended advance, this formation can be a strong reversal
pattern.
three white soldiers The opposite of the three crow’s formation, this is the pat-
tern consisting of three candles that close at their highs and can indicate a contin-
ued advance. This pattern is a reliable indication that prices are moving higher,
especially if they develop after a longer period of consolidation at a bottom.
variable limit According to the Chicago Board of Trade rules, an expanded
allowable price range set during volatile markets.
vega The calculation that measures an options value to the change in the
volatility.
vertical spread Buying and selling puts or calls of the same expiration month but
different strike prices.
VIX The Volatility Index provided by the Chicago Board Options Exchange. It is
dubbed the fear indexas it gauges the implied volatility on the stock index contract.
The index is now calibrated from a sample of out-of-the-money puts and calls on the
S&P 500 index instead of the original contract that was based on the S&P 100 index
(OEX) contract.
volatility The measurement of the change in price over a given time period. It is
often expressed as a percentage and computed as the annualized standard deviation
of percentage change in daily price.
volume The number of purchases or sales of a contract during a specified period
of time, often the total transactions for one trading day.
windows A Japanese candlestick term referred to as a gap in Western analysis.
X-Trader An online electronic trading platform provided by Trading Technologies.
yield A measure of the annual return on an investment. Also referred to as the
amount of interest on a debt instrument.

P-16_4218 2/24/04 3:44 PM Page 253
Bibliography
Bollinger, John, Bollinger on Bollinger Bands(McGraw-Hill, 2001).
Dorsey, Thomas J., Point & Figure Charting,Second Edition (John Wiley & Sons,
2001).
Douglas, Mark, The Disciplined Trader(Prentice Hall Press, 1990).
Douglas, Mark, Trading in the Zone(Prentice Hall Press, 2001).
Edwards, Robert D., and John Magee, Technical Analysis of Stock Trends(John
Magee, 1997; first edition, 1948).
Farley, Alan, The Master Swing Trader(McGraw-Hill, 2000).
Frost, A. J., and Robert Prechter, Elliott Wave Principles (New Classics Library,
1978, first printing).
Gann, William D., How to Make Profits in Commodities(Lambert Gann Publishing,
1949).
Hadaday, Earl, Contrary Opinion(Key Books, 1983).
Lefèvre, Edwin, Reminiscences of a Stock Operator(John Wiley & Sons, 1993; orig-
inally published by George H. Doran and Company, 1923).
McMillan, Larry, McMillan on Options(John Wiley & Sons, 1996) and Options as a
Strategic Investment(Prentice-Hall Press, 1993).
Murphy, John J., Technical Analysis of the Futures Markets(New York Institute of
Finance, 1986).
Nison, Steve, Beyond Candlesticks(John Wiley & Sons, 1994).
Nison, Steve, Japanese Candlestick Charting Techniques(New York Institute of Fi-
nance, Simon & Schuster, 1991).
Pesavento, Larry, Fibonacci Ratios with Pattern Recognition (Traders Press,
1997).
Pesavento, Larry, Opening Price Principle: Best Kept Secret on Wall Street
(Traders Press, 2000).
Sklarew, Arthur, Techniques of a Professional Commodity Chart Analyst(Com-
modity Research Bureau, 1980).
Williams, Larry, How I Made $1 Million Last Year Trading Commodities(Windsor
Books, 1973).
Williams, Larry, The Right Stock at the Right Time(John Wiley & Sons, 2003).
253

P-16_4218 2/24/04 3:44 PM Page 254

P-17_4218 2/24/04 3:49 PM Page 255
Index
Abandon baby pattern, 47–48 Bearish market, indicators of, 69,
Absolute value, 7 167
Adjusting position, 229 Bearish traders, 167
Advancing soldiers pattern, 51 Bear put spreads, 226
After-hours trading, 14, 178 Bear ratio put spread, 229
Agricultural products/markets, 6, Beige Book, 23
14–15, 19, 82 Benchmark candle, 54–56, 140–151
American Petroleum Institute, Beta, 221
29 Beyond Candlesticks(Nison), 66
American style options, 220 Bid/ask spread, 61
Anderson, Mark, 17 Black-Scholes option pricing, 168,
Ascending triangles, 81 221
Asian financial crisis, 62 Blue-chip stocks, 15
At the market, 178–179 Bollinger, John, 68, 237–238
At-the-money option, 223, 229, Bollinger bands, 68, 237
232–233 Bond market, 6, 21, 94. See also
U.S. Treasury bonds
Bar charts, 34–48, 160. See also Bottom Line Financial and
specific types of bar charts Futures Newsletter,56, 109,
Barron’s,21, 167 118
Bear credit spreads, 228 Bottoms
Bear flag formation, 52, 83 candlestick charts, 46–47, 49,
Bearish analysts, 162, 167 51, 53–54
Bearish divergence, 146–148 double, 71, 128, 156, 158
Bearish engulfing pattern, 48–49, formation of, 132
52–53, 60–61, 102, 122 head-and-shoulders, 71–73,
Bearish falling three method, 52 114–115
Bearish harami pattern, 50–51, identification of, 146
57–60, 102, 106–107, 110, 116, inverted head-and-shoulders,
126, 128–129 71–73
Bearish investors, 174 pinpointing, 93
Bearish key reversal, 35 rounding, 86–88
255

P-17_4218 2/24/04 3:49 PM Page 256
256 INDEX
Bottoms (continued) chart patterns, 71
rumors and, 23 moving averages, 137, 139
W, 71, 158 oops, 89
Breakaway gap, 74–75, 89, 100 pivot point analysis, 119
Breakeven point, 142 stochastics, 146–147
Breakout patterns, 90–92 Buy stop order, 180–182
Breakout point, 82–84, 96, 101
Breakout signals, 37, 40 CAC, 95
Broker(s) Calendar month, significance of,
full-service, 186 226–227
as information resource, 181, Call options, see specific types of
185 call options
order execution, 182, 185 buy signals, 63–64
selection factors, 186–187 characteristics of, 219–220,
Brokerage firms, functions of, 223–225, 227–229, 231
11–12, 174–175 put-to-call ratio, 167
Bull call ratio spread, 228 Call ratio back spread, 229
Bull call spreads, 225–226 Cancel orders, 182
Bull credit spreads, 227–228 Cancel replace order, 182–183
Bull flag formation, 65 Candle/candlestick charts
Bullish analysts, 162, 167 analysis of, 44, 65
Bullish Consensus,63 benefits of, 34, 133, 160
Bullish convergence, 146 body, 44–45
Bullish engulfing pattern, 48–49, candle, defined, 44
55–56, 125 candle patterns, 45–52
Bullish harami pattern, 51, 117, 124 defined, 34
Bullish investors/traders, 167, 174 historical development, 43–44
Bullish key reversal, 35 information resources, 66
Bullish market, 166–167 reading, 52–61
Bullish rising three method, 52, 65 time frames, 61–65
Bull market, 16–17, 157, 230 Capacity utilization rate, 25
Bull trends, 84 Capital preservation, 209
Bureau of the Public Debt, 22 Cardinal Square, 150
Business cycles, 31 Cattle futures, Fibonacci price
Business inventories, 25 retracement, 154–155
Bust trade policy, 173 Channel lines, 44
Buy-and-hold strategy, 4, 164, 214 Chart analysis
Buyer’s remorse syndrome, data integration, 69–70
192–193 open interest, 68, 158
Buy signals significance of, 34, 213
call options, 63–64 volume, 67–68, 158
candlestick charts, 46, 54, Charting techniques
58–59, 65 bar charts, 34–38

P-17_4218 2/24/04 3:49 PM Page 257
Index 257
candle charts, 34, 43–66 Coiling formation, 80–81
point-and-figure charts, 34, COMEX, 179
38–40 Commercials, 7, 163–164
types of, 34 Commissions, 13, 207, 224, 229,
Chart pattern recognition 232
candle charts, 44 Commitments of Traders(COT),
components of, 34, 70–71, 148 Commodity Futures Trading
diamond formations, 82–83 Commision (CFTC), 10, 61,
flag formations, 52, 83–84 63, 162–163
funnel formations, 85–86 Commodities, characteristics of, 2,
gap analysis, 73–76 6–7
head-and-shoulders tops and Commodity funds, 7
bottoms, 70–73, 114–115, Commodity Futures Trading
157–158 Commission, 10, 16
importance of, 132–133 Common gaps, 73–74
M tops, 71, 158 Construction spending, 28
1-2-3 patterns, 71, 157–158 Consumer confidence, 25–26
opening patterns, 88–92 Consumer credit, 28
pennants, 84–85 Consumer Price Index (CPI), 20,
rounding bottoms and tops, 24
86–88 Contract months, 14. See also
trend channels, 79–80 Calendar month
trend line analysis, 76–79 Contrarian opinion, 161–162
triangle chart patterns, 80–82 Contrary Opinion(Hadady), 162
W bottom, 71, 158 Cornerstone candle, 55
wedge patterns, 82 Cornerstone Investors Group, 17
W reversal, 72 Corn futures, options trading, 220
Chicago Board of Trade (CBOT), Corrective waves, 157–158
10, 14–15, 40, 42–43, 94, 125, Cotton futures, P3T signals,
173, 179 109–111
Chicago Board Options Exchange Coupon, 23
(CBOE), 167–169 Covered calls, 230–231
Chicago Mercantile Exchange Covered puts, 230–231
(CME), 10–11, 14–15, 42, 62, CQG, 42
125, 172–173, 179 Crane, George, 217
Close-to-the-money options, Credit spread, 228
225–230, 232–233 Crossover signals, moving aver-
Closing prices, 44–45, 48, 51–52, ages, 137–139
57–58, 89 Crude oil futures
Coffee futures moving average crossover sig-
options trading example, nals, 137–138, 142
222–224 P3T signals, 108–109
scale trading example, 210–211 scale trading example, 210–212

P-17_4218 2/24/04 3:49 PM Page 258
258 INDEX
Currencies, 6 Doubt, dealing with, 196
Cycle analysis/studies, 152, 214 Douglas, Mark, 237
Dow Jones Industrial Average, 6,
%D, 145–147 60, 115, 125–126
Daily charts, 63–64, 82, 84, 104 Downtrends, characteristics of,
Dark cloud cover pattern, 49–50 35–36, 45, 49, 51, 59, 145–146,
DAX, 95 167
Day session, 178 Downward price movement, 38
Day traders, guidelines for, 12, 41, Dragonfly pattern, 46–47, 128
93, 101, 124–125, 146–147 Durable goods orders, 25
Day trading
characteristics of, 1, 113, 104, Earnings reports, 30
204 Eight to ten new records pattern,
market selection, 125–131 58–59
multiple time frames, 121–123 Electronic trading, 14–16
pivot point analysis, applica- Elevator analogy, 3
tions of, 113–121 Elliott, Ralph N., 157
target resistance, 123–125 Elliott Wave Principles
trading tips summary, 131–133 (Frost/Prechter), 158
Dead cross, 137–138, 141 Elliott Wave theory
Debit spreads, 225–226 components of, 157–158
Delta, 221 development of, 157–158
Delta neutral option spread, example of, 158–159
231–232 information resources, 158
Demand and supply, defined, 19. e-mini S&P 500, 15, 67, 96, 122,
See alsoSupply and demand 125, 173, 178
Depreciation, 231–232 Emotional trading/traders, implica-
Derivatives, types of, 2 tions of, 191, 196–197
Descending triangles, 81 Employment Cost Index (ECI), 26
Diamond formulations, 82–83 Entry dates, 214–215
DiNapoli, Joe, 155 Equilibrium point, pivot point
Disciplined Trader, The(Douglas), analysis, 101–102
190, 237 Equities market, 152
Divergence Equity trading, 13–14
moving average conver- eSignal, 42
gence/divergence pattern, Euro currency futures contract,
143–145 bearish divergence, 147–148
stochastics, 146–147 Eurodollar, 10, 82–83
Dividends, 13 European Central Bank, 21
Doji pattern, 46–47, 56–58, 60, 106, European style options, 220
119, 122, 127, 129 Even cost spread, 228
Double bottoms, 71, 128, 156 Evening star pattern, 46–47,
Double tops, 58, 106–108, 110 115–116

P-17_4218 2/24/04 3:49 PM Page 259
Index 259
Exchange(s),see specific Forex trading, 61
exchanges Fundamental analysis, 19
functions of, 10, 14 Fund management, 7
web sites, as information Funnel formations, 85–86
resource, 70 Futures commission merchant
Exchange-traded funds, 2 (FCM), 173
Exhaustion gap, 74–75, 98, 100 Futures trading, generally
Existing home sales, 28 bull market for, 16–17
Exit strategy, 238 contract specifications, 8–9,
Expiration date, 232 13–14
Exponential moving averages electronic trading, 14–15
(EMA), 105–106, 108, 110, 136, getting into, 6
142–143, 159–160 holding penalty, 4–5
instruments of, 6–10
Face value, 23 margin, 7, 10–12
Factory orders, 25 popularity of, 1
Fair market value, 20 security deposit, 10–11
Fair value, 7 single stock futures (SSFs), 7,
Farley, Alan, 237 16
Fast MACD line, 143
Fast market conditions, 177, 181 Gamma, 221
Fearful traders, implications of, Gann, William D., 149
191, 193, 196–197 Gann theory, 149–150
Federal Open Market Committee Gap analysis, 73–76, 98
(FOMC), meetings and policy Gap trading, 88–89
announcements, 22–23, 128 Gecko Software, 160
Federal regulation, 10 Global economy, 6, 95
Federal Reserve, 11, 20, 212 Globex, 172–173
Fibonacci, Leonardo, 150, 154 Goal-setting, 198–199, 237
Fibonacci corrections, 153 Going long, 63–64, 79, 174
Fibonacci indicators, 34 Gold, 6, 86–87
Fibonacci numbers, 97, 150–157, Golden cross, 137
160 Good’til canceled (GTC) order,
Fibonacci price retracement, 183–184, 199
154–155 Good-faith deposit, 7, 219, 222,
Fibonacci series, 150, 152–153 228–230
Fill or kill (FOK) order, 183 Gossip-for-the-game syndrome,
First notice day, 214–215 165
Fixed-income investments, 23 Government reports, see specific
Flag formations, 52, 65, 83–84 types of government reports
Flat the market, 174 economic impact of, 21–22
Floor traders, 100–101 as information resource, 23–29
Foghorns, 85 Gramza, Dan, 42, 66

P-17_4218 2/24/04 3:49 PM Page 260
260 INDEX
Gravestone pattern, 46–47 Intraday rallies, 69
Greed, 191–193, 196–197, 209, 236 Intramarket spreads, 185
Greeks, 221 Intrinsic value, options, 219–220
Greenspan, Alan, 20, 25, 175 Introducing brokers (IBs), 173–174
Gross domestic product (GDP), 23 Inverted hammer pattern, 46
Inverted head-and-shoulders
Hadady, Earl, 162 bottom, 71–72
Hammer pattern, 45, 54, 56, 58, 110 Investment clubs, 17
Hanging man pattern, 45, 57 Investors Business Daily,21
Harami pattern, 50 Island pattern, gap analysis, 75–76
Harmonic timing event, 153 ISM Index, 30
Head-and-shoulders tops and bot-
toms, 71–73, 114–115, 157 Japanese candle charting, 34, 43,
Hedgers, 7, 163–164 58
Hedging, 10 Japanese Candlestick Charting
Histograms, 143 Techniques(Nison), 66
Historical data, implications of, 7, Japanese Central Bank, 62–63
34, 151 Japanese yen, candlestick chart
Historical volatility, 220 patterns, 61–64
Housing starts, 27
How to Make Profits in %K, 145–147
Commodities(Gann), 150 Kansas City Board of Trade
(KCBT), 14, 179
Implied volatility, 168, 220 Key reversal bar, 35
Impulse waves, 157 Kraft Foods, 10
Index of Leading Economic
Indicators (LEI), 24 Lagging indicators, 93
Industrial production, 25 Lane, George C., 144
Inflation, 6, 24 Large speculators, 163–165
Initial margin, 7, 11–12, 16, 139, Legging into a spread, 184
142 Let-it-ride mentality, 208
Inside bar, 37 Leverage, 11–12
Institute of Supply Management Limit buy orders, 207
(ISM) Index, 25 Limit down, 177, 181
Institutional desk traders, 41 Limit orders, 180
Interest rate, impact of, 11, 20–21, Limit up, 177
23, 28 Linearly weighted moving
Intermarket spreads, 185 averages, 136
International trade, 24 Liquidity/liquidation, 6, 12–13,
In-the-money options, 220, 225, 142
229–230 Liquidity Data BankTM, 40
Intraday charts/charting, 40–42, 82, Live cattle, pivot point analysis,
84 99–100

P-17_4218 2/24/04 3:49 PM Page 261
Index 261
Livermore, Jesse, 192 Market profiling
Locked limit down, 177–178 applications, generally, 41–42
Locked limit up, 177 defined, 34
Long position, 48, 125, 148 education sources, 42
Long straddles, 232–233 marketprofileSMsoftware,
Long-Term Capital Management 40–41
(LTCM), 62 Market psychology, 43, 63, 114. See
Long-term traders, 146 alsoMarket sentiment; Trader
Lopsided market, 164 mindset
Losses, dealing with, 192, Market rallies, 64, 69, 85, 106, 119,
200–201, 239 123–124, 131, 153
Market reversals, 5, 12, 43, 57–58,
McMillan, Larry, 233 118
Maintenance margin, 11 Market selection, 125
Mallers, Bill, Sr., 95 Market sentiment, implications of
Margin account, 7, 10–12, 204, Commitments of Traders
228 (COT), 162–165
Margin call, 12, 211 contrarian opinion, 161–162
Margin rate changes, 166–167 margin rate changes, 166–167
Marked to market, 12 market consensus, 161–165
Market analysis, 41, 214 Market Vane,162, 169
Market conditions media attention, 165–166
implications of, 233 put-to-call ratio, 167, 169
indicators of, 69 VIX (volatility index), 167–169
order placement, impact on, Market Vane Bullish Consensus,
176–178, 181 The,162, 169
Market consensus, 161–165 Master Swing Trader, The
Market correction, 56, 104, 144 (Farley), 237
Market drivers MATIF, 95
business cycles and, 31 Maturity date, 23
government reports, as informa- Measuring gap, 74–75, 100
tion resource, 21–30 Media, impact on market,
interest rates, 20–21 165–166
Market events, timing of, 150 Midpoint gap, 74–75, 100
Market if touched (MIT) orders, Momentum traders, 138, 140
179 M-1/M-2, 30
Market mix, 63 Monetary policy, 23
Market on close (MOC) orders, Monthly charts, 82
180 Morning star pattern, 47, 49, 114,
Market on open (MOO) orders, 124
180 Mortgage Bankers Association Pur-
Market orders, 172, 178–179 chase Applications Index, 28
marketprofileSM, 40–41 Mortgage rates, 20

P-17_4218 2/24/04 3:49 PM Page 262
262 INDEX
Moving average conver- Options,see specific types of
gence/divergence (MACD), options
61, 101, 133, 142–144, 160 abuse of, 218
Moving averages, 61, 97, 105–106, benefits of, generally, 12–13
108, 133, 135–142, 159–160 exercising, 219
M tops, 71, 158 Greeks, 221
Multiple candle patterns, 64–65 information resources, 233
Multiple contracts, 214 pricing, 221
Multiple-leg spread strategy, 221 risk management, 221–222, 224
Multiple one-bar signals, 38 terminology, 218–219
Multiple position traders, trading steps, 222–224
139–140 trading strategies, generally,
Murphy, John J., 38, 119, 204 221–222, 224–223
types of, 220–221
Nasdaq 100 futures, 1, 15, 115 valuation, 219–220
National Association of Purchasing writing, 218
Managers (NAPM) survey, 25 Options for Beginners(Caplan),
National Futures Association, 61, 233
108, 186–187 Order cancels order/one cancels
National Oilseed Processors other (OCO), 183
Association, 29 Order entry selections, 171–176
Neckline, chart patterns, 72–73, Order placement, see specific
114 types of orders
New home sales, 27–28 accuracy of, 175
New York Stock Exchange, 88, 122 errors, dealing with, 175
Niederhoffer, Victor, 142 futures contracts, 14
Nison, Steve, 43–44, 66 online, 172, 174–176, 185–187
Normal market conditions, 176, order entry selections, 171–176
181 overview of, 171–176, 186–187
NYBOT, 179 telephone orders, 174
NYMEX, 179 Oscillators, 105, 158–159
Out-of-the-money options,
One-bar signals, 37–38 219–220, 225, 227, 230–231
One-contract traders, 139 Outside bar, 36
1-2-3 patterns, 71, 157–158 Overbought market, 144, 158, 162
1-2-3 swing top formation, 71 Oversold market, 116, 123, 144,
Oops signal, 88–90 158, 162
Opening patterns, 88–92
Opening prices, 44–45, 48, 52, Paper profit, 12, 191
57–58 Paper trading, 160, 192
Opening range breakout, 90–92 Pattern recognition, importance of,
Open interest, 68–70, 133, 158 160.See alsoChart pattern
Open order, 183 recognition

P-17_4218 2/24/04 3:49 PM Page 263
Index 263
Pennants, 80, 84–85 Proedgefx.com, 61
Performance bond requirements, Profit generation, 133
11, 111, 219 Profit-taking, 5
Personal income and spending, 27, P3T signals (Person’s Pivot Point
29 Trade signal), 103–112,
Pesavento, Larry, 91, 237 127–128
Piercing pattern, 49–50, 129 Put options, see specific types of
Pillar of strength candle, 54–56 put options
Pillar of weakness candle, 55 characteristics of, 219–220,
Pivot point analysis 226–231
daily numbers, 97 put-to-call ratio, 167, 169
day trading tips, 133 Pyramiding, 205–210
equilibrium, 101–102
examples of, 94–95, 102–103 QQQ, 2
Fibonacci numbers, applica-
tions of, 155–156 Range, defined, 132
implications of, 34, 43, 50, 57, Ratio back spreads, 229–230
66, 75, 93, 133 Ratio put back spread, 230
moving average crossover sig- Ratio spreads, 228–229
nals, 141–142 Reagonomics, 94
pivot point formula, 95–96 Relative strength index, 97,
P3T signals, 103–112, 120, 158–159
127–128 Reports, as information resource,
support/resistance, 93, 96–97, 28–30.See alsoGovernment
101–111, 115–116, 125–130 reports
verification, importance of, Resistance level
97–101, 148 implications of, generally, 44
Pivot point number, defined, 95 moving average crossover sig-
Point-and-figure charts, 34, 38–40 nals, 137–138, 140–141
Positive affirmations, significance pivot point analysis, 93, 95–97,
of, 199 101–111, 115–116, 123–130
Precious metals, 6 trend channels, 79–80
Premium, options, 13, 218–220, trend line analysis, 78
224, 228–230 Retail sales, 27
Price breakouts, moving averages, Retail traders, 41
137 Retesting, trend line analysis,
Price corrections, 149–150 78–79
Price/earnings ratio (P/E), 30 Retracement, 154–155, 158
Price range forecasting, 93 Reversal amount, 39–40
Price reversals, 38–39, 86, 89, 129 Reversal patterns, candlestick
Pring, Martin, 238 charts, 49–50
Producer Price Index (PPI), 20, 24 Reverse pyramid, 209
Productivity, 26 Reverse splits, 13

P-17_4218 2/24/04 3:49 PM Page 264
264 INDEX
Rickshaw pattern, 46–47, 129 Shooting star pattern, 48–49, 54,
Rising wedge pattern, 82 56–57, 105–106, 126–128
Risk capital, 196 Short call option, 225, 227, 230–231
Risk exposure, reduction strate- Short strangles, 233
gies, 185 Short trading strategy, 53, 59–60,
Risk management guidelines, 60, 64, 79, 100, 127, 180–181
100, 221–222, 224, 236–239 Silver futures, 56–57, 77, 104–105,
Rolling over, 185 140–142, 225–226
Rounding bottoms and tops, 86–88 Single stock futures (SSFs), 7, 16
Rumors, 239 Size of contract, significance of, 7
Sklarew, Arthur, 97–98
S&P 100 index (OEX), 2, 167–168 Slippage, 181, 207
S&P 500,1, 6–7, 102, 118–119 35, Slow MACD line, 143
114, 116–117, 143, 146–147, Small speculators, 163–165
150–153 Soybean futures, 85–86, 206–208
Santa Claus rally, 153 SPAN margining, 11
Saucer bottom, 87 Speculators, 7, 163–165. See specif-
Scale trading, 210–212 ic types of speculators
Screen “watchers,” 193 Spinning tops pattern, 46, 56, 115
Securities and Exchange Spread off, 185
Commission (SEC),16 Spread orders, 184–186
Security deposit, 7, 10–11. See also Spread trader, 185
Good-faith deposit; Margin Standard Portfolio Analysis of Risk
Self-confidence, importance of, System, 11
189–190, 197, 199 Star pattern, 46
Self-evaluation guidelines, 190–192 Stochastics, implications of, 61, 97,
Sell-off, sources of, 165 101, 104–105, 110, 116,
Sell signals 119–120, 133, 144–149, 155,
chart pattern analysis, 50, 53, 158–160
61, 115 Stock indexes, 6–7, 10
day trading, 129–130 Stock splits, 13
indicators of, generally, 69 Stock symbols, 13
moving average conver- Stop close only orders, 106,
gence/divergence (MACD) 111–112, 181–182
pattern, 143 Stop limit (SL) orders, 182
moving averages, 137, 139 Stop-loss orders, 126–127, 180–181,
oops, 88–89 183, 199, 207–208
pivot point analysis, 101–102 Stop orders, 89, 180–181, 214
P3T, 107–108 Stop placement, candle chart
stochastics, 146–148 analysis, 53, 58–59
Sell stop order, 181 Stop reversal, 214
Settlement price reversal bar, 37 Straddle order, 184
Settlement prices, 144–145 Stress, dealing with, 197, 199–200

P-17_4218 2/24/04 3:49 PM Page 265
Index 265
Strike price, 13, 219–221, 228–230, techniques.SeeChart analysis;
232 Charting techniques; Chart
Successful traders, characteristics pattern recognition; Market
of, 192, 198–200 profiling
Sugar futures, 98–99 Technical Analysis of Stock
Supply and demand, 6, 34, 166 Trends(Edwards/Magee), 238
Supply complacency, 210 Technical Analysis of the Futures
Support and resistance, see Markets(Murphy), 204
Resistance level; Support Technical indicators
level characteristics of, 34, 159–160
Support extension, Fibonacci Elliott Wave theory, 157–159
ratio, 156–157 Fibonacci numbers, 150–157,
Support level 160
implications of, generally, 44 Gann theory, 149–150
moving average crossover sig- moving average conver-
nals, 137, 139–141 gence/divergence (MACD),
pivot point analysis, 93, 95–97, 142–144, 160
101–105, 109, 111, 124–126, moving averages, 135–142,
130 159–160
Support lines stochastics, 144–149, 155
broken, 77–78, 80, 86 Techniques of a Professional
trend channels, 79–80 Commodity Chart Analyst
Swing traders/swing trading, 113, (Sklarew), 97–98
119, 147 Theta, 221
Switch order, 184 Three crows pattern, 51
Symbols, in futures contracts, Three white soldiers pattern, 51
13–14 Time frames, multiple, 121–123
Symmetrical triangle pattern, 80, Time value, options, 219
82, 88 Timing cycles, Fibonacci numbers,
Synthetic futures positions, 231 151–153
Tips, acting on, 165–166
Tactical trading To-do list, 198–200
defined, 205 Tops
miscellaneous techniques, candlestick charts, 46–47,
213–215 50–51, 53
pyramiding, 205–210 double, 58, 158
S&P 500 Friday 10:30 a.m. rule, expanding pattern, 85–86
212–213 formation of, 132
scale trading, 210–212 head-and-shoulders, 70–73,
Target trading, 93 114–115
Technical analysis identification of, 146
defined, 33 M, 71
implications of, generally, 5–6 pinpointing, 93

P-17_4218 2/24/04 3:49 PM Page 266
266 INDEX
Tops (continued) Elliott wave theory, 158
rounding, 86–88 gap analysis, 75
rumors and, 239 moving average conver-
spinning, 46, 56, 115 gence/divergence (MACD)
Tower of weakness, 61 pattern, 143
Trader mindset oops signal, 89
buyer’s remorse syndrome, options strategies, 228
192–193 put-to-call ratio, 167
emotions, 196–197 trend channels, 80
realistic approaches, 192–194, 196 trendline analysis, 76–77
self-evaluation, 190–192 triangle chart patterns, 82
significance of, 88, 189–190,
197–198, 236–237 Vega, 221
Trading hours, 14 Verification, importance of,
Trading in the Zone(Douglas), 190 97–101, 148–149
Trading log, 176, 187 Vertical bear put spread, 226
Trading mentality, 3–4. See also Vertical bull call spread, 225
Trader mindset Vertical calendar spreads, 226–227
Trading plan, importance of, 206, Visualization, 199–200
239 VIX (volatility index), 167–169
Trading worksheet, 194–197 Volatility
Trailing stops, 112, 181, 207–209 in chart analysis, 86
Transaction fees, 13, 224, 229, 232 impact of, 3–4, 11, 239
Trend channels, 79–80, 159 options strategies and, 227,
Trend confirmation, 158 229–230
Trend line analysis, 40, 44, 76–79, Volatility rate, options, 220
160 Volume, in chart analysis, 67–68,
Trend reversal, 69 133, 158
Triangle chart patterns, 80–82 VXO, 169
Undercapitalization, 211 Wall Street Journal,21
Unemployment rate, 26 Wasting asset, 219
U.S. dollar, 24 W bottom, 71, 158
U.S. Dollar Index futures chart, 57, Weather forecasts, implications of,
59–60, 105–108 29
U.S. Treasury bills, 16, 22–23 Wedge patterns, 82
U.S. Treasury bonds, 22–23, Weekly charts, 82
126–129 Whipsaw, 86
U.S. Treasury notes, 6, 22–23 Wholesale Price Index, 24
Unit labor costs, 26 Williams, Larry, 68, 88
Uptrends W reversal, 71–72
candlestick charts, 45–46, 48, Writing options, 228–232
51, 60

