

ffirs.qxd 9/25/06 10:00 AM Page iii
Candlestick
and
Pivot Point
Trading
Triggers
Setups for Stock, Forex,
and Futures Markets
JOHN L. PERSON
John Wiley &Sons, Inc.

ffirs.qxd 9/25/06 10:00 AM Page B

ffirs.qxd 9/25/06 10:00 AM Page A
Additional Praise for
Candlestick and Pivot Point
Trading Triggers
“Coming from the trading floor, it wasn’t until we started building charting
software that I realized how little I knew about the retail trader’s passion
for technical analysis. John’s latest book clearly defines many of the deli-
cate intricacies of trading patterns and key turning points. I’m a junkie for
this type of stuff and I learned a ton from this book.”
—Tom Sosnoff
CEO, thinkorswim Group
“As a professional options trader and teacher, I have always told my stu-
dents that to be consistently successful in the markets, you must first
identify the opportunity and then apply the best strategy for you that fits
that opportunity. Candlestick and Pivot Point Trading Triggersis the an-
swer to the first step: finding and identifying the best opportunities to trade.
John breaks down pivot points, a sophisticated form of technical analysis,
in a surprisingly simple way, and then combines it with candlesticks to cre-
ate a simple and easy-to-use system. This system, unlike most others, is
consistently able to predict highs and lows of stocks and other securities
for multiple timeframes with amazing accuracy. This is a great book for
traders of all experience levels and I am making it mandatory reading for all
of my students.”
—Ron Ianieri
Chief Options Strategist, The Options University
“John Person has built his career on teaching investors how to understand
and use technical analysis. The strategies described in Candlestick and
Pivot Point Trading Triggersare employed by professional traders every
trading session and are the lifeblood of futures and forex investors. If you
want a complete guide to why the smart money buys at this level and sells
at that, you must read John’s book. I heartily endorse it!”
—Jon “Doctor J” Najarian
co-founder of www.optionmonster.com

ffirs.qxd 9/25/06 10:00 AM Page ii
Founded in 1807, John Wiley & Sons is the oldest independent publishing
company in the United States. With offices in North America, Europe, Aus-
tralia, and Asia, Wiley is globally committed to developing and marketing
print and electronic products and services for our customers’ professional
and personal knowledge and understanding.
The Wiley Trading series features books by traders who have survived
the market’s ever-changing temperament and have prospered—some by
reinventing systems, others by getting back to basics. Whether a novice
trader, professional, or somewhere in-between, these books will provide
the advice and strategies needed to prosper today and well into the future.
For a list of available titles, visit our Web site at www.WileyFinance.com.

ffirs.qxd 9/25/06 10:00 AM Page iii
Candlestick
and
Pivot Point
Trading
Triggers
Setups for Stock, Forex,
and Futures Markets
JOHN L. PERSON
John Wiley &Sons, Inc.

ffirs.qxd 9/25/06 10:00 AM Page iv
Copyright © 2007 by John L. Person. All rights reserved.
Published by John Wiley & Sons, Inc., Hoboken, New Jersey.
Published simultaneously in Canada.
No part of this publication may be reproduced, stored in a retrieval system, or transmitted in any form or
by any means, electronic, mechanical, photocopying, recording, scanning, or otherwise, except as per-
mitted under Section 107 or 108 of the 1976 United States Copyright Act, without either the prior written
permission of the Publisher, or authorization through payment of the appropriate per-copy fee to the
Copyright Clearance Center, Inc., 222 Rosewood Drive, Danvers, MA 01923, (978) 750-8400, fax (978) 646-
8600, or on the web at www.copyright.com. Requests to the Publisher for permission should be
addressed to the Permissions Department, John Wiley & Sons, Inc., 111 River Street, Hoboken, NJ 07030,
(201) 748-6011, fax (201) 748-6008, or online at http://www.wiley.com/go/permissions.
Limit of Liability/Disclaimer of Warranty: While the publisher and author have used their best efforts in
preparing this book, they make no representations or warranties with respect to the accuracy or com-
pleteness of the contents of this book and specifically disclaim any implied warranties of merchantability
or fitness for a particular purpose. No warranty may be created or extended by sales representatives or
written sales materials. The advice and strategies contained herein may not be suitable for your situa-
tion. You should consult with a professional where appropriate. Neither the publisher nor author shall be
liable for any loss of profit or any other commercial damages, including but not limited to special, inci-
dental, consequential, or other damages.
RealTick® graphics used with permission of Townsend Analytics, Ltd. © 1986–2006 Townsend Analytics,
Ltd. All rights reserved. RealTick is a registered trademark of Townsend Analytics, Ltd. Any unautho-
rized reproduction, alteration, or use of RealTick is strictly prohibited. Authorized use of RealTick does
not constitute an endorsement by Townsend Analytics of this book. Townsend Analytics does not guar-
antee the accuracy of or warrant any representations made in this book.
Designations used by companies to distinguish their products are often claimed as trademarks. In all
instances where John Wiley & Sons, Inc., is aware of a claim, the product names appear in initial capital
or all capital letters. Readers, however, should contact the appropriate companies for more complete
information regarding trademarks and registration.
For general information on our other products and services or for technical support, please contact our
Customer Care Department within the United States at (800) 762-2974, outside the United States at (317)
572-3993 or fax (317) 572-4002.
Wiley also publishes its books in a variety of electronic formats. Some content that appears in print may
not be available in electronic books. For more information about Wiley products, visit our web site at
www.wiley.com.
Library of Congress Cataloging-in-Publication Data:
Person, John L.
Candlestick and pivot point trading triggers : setups for stock, forex, and futures markets / John L.
Person.
p. cm. — (Wiley trading series)
Includes index.
ISBN-13 978-0-471-98022-3 (cloth)
ISBN-10 0-471-98022-6 (cloth)
1. Stocks—charts, diagrams, etc. 2. Investment analysis. 3. Futures. 4. Options (Finance).
I. Title. II. Series.
HG4638.P468 2007
332.63'2042--dc22
2006011098
Printed in the United States of America.
10 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1

ffirs.qxd 9/25/06 10:00 AM Page v
To my wife, Mary,
who is always by my side and who gave me
encouragement and assistance in completing this book.
Thank you from the bottom of my heart
and with all my love.

ffirs.qxd 9/25/06 10:00 AM Page vi

ftoc.qxd 9/25/06 10:02 AM Page vii
Contents
Introduction 1
CHAPTER 1 Trading Vehicles, Stock, ETFs,
Futures, and Forex 5
CHAPTER 2 Determining Market Condition:
Bullish, Bearish, or Neutral 77
CHAPTER 3 How to Read Oscillators to Spot
Overbought or Oversold Conditions 93
CHAPTER 4 Momentum Changes: How to
Spot Divergence or Convergence 111
CHAPTER 5 Pivot Points: Determine Key Price
Support and Resistance Areas and
the Importance of Confluence 121
CHAPTER 6 Pivot Point Moving Average System 159
CHAPTER 7 Candle Charts and Top
Reversal Patterns 187
vii

ftoc.qxd 9/25/06 10:02 AM Page viii
viii CONTENTS
CHAPTER 8 Setups and Triggers: Combining
Candles and Pivots 213
CHAPTER 9 Risk Management: Setting Stops 257
CHAPTER 10 Projecting Entry and Exit Points:
Learn to Scale Out 269
CHAPTER 11 The Sample Analysis: The Proof
Is in the Back-Testing 279
CHAPTER 12 Confidence to Pull the Trigger
Comes from Within 307
Glossary 317
About the CD-ROM 335
Index 339

ftoc.qxd 9/25/06 10:02 AM Page ix
Acknowledgments
I
want to thank Pamela van Giessen and Jennifer MacDonald of John
Wiley & Sons for allowing me to share my work. I would also like to
thank Cindy Cromwell, Mike Felix, Sarah Neis, and Joanna Pak from
RealTick Software—what a great team! I also extend my sincere gratitude
to Glen Larson and Peter Kilman from Genesis Software for testing my the-
ories and for helping me to develop my trading library on their software.
Between these two charting software companies, any serious trader will
have the best support and the most advanced trading tools to succeed! I
also wish to thank the folks at eSignal.com.
I wish to thank all my past students for taking the initiative to apply
these principles and for testing me while trading. I wish you all the very
most life has to offer!
To my son John, you have made your father proud! Then to Mary, my
wife of 19 years, your help in fixing all my computer and technical issues
was instrumental in helping me finish this project, including completing the
Pivot Point Calculator CD.
JOHNL. PERSON
ix

ftoc.qxd 9/25/06 10:02 AM Page x

ftoc.qxd 9/25/06 10:02 AM Page xi
Candlestick
and
Pivot Point
Trading
Triggers

ftoc.qxd 9/25/06 10:02 AM Page xii

cintro.qxd 9/25/06 9:26 AM Page 1
Introduction
T
o all the individual traders reaching out to learn how to invest and
trade wisely and to all those who are looking for new ideas and who
have been around looking to learn a more positive approach, I say
that after reading this material, you will find a great approach to trading and
will learn the importance of or at least will expand your knowledge on how
to develop your personalized mechanical trading system and learn why that
is important. You will learn specifically what methods and parameters to
use with time-tested material. My first book, A Complete Guide to Techni-
cal Trading Tactics, was released in April 2004. It was a great introductory
on how to incorporate pivot point analysis with other forms of technical in-
dicators and how it related to trading commodities. The foresight that book
offered suggested that we would see resurgence in commodity activity and
that commodity markets would soon be in vogue. I had chart examples of
silver at 4.50 per ounce and gold at 350 per ounce. On page 211, I gave an ex-
ample of a potentially great scale trading opportunity in coffee when it was
as low as 49.00. Sugar was at 7.00. Crude oil was at 21.00. The 30-year bonds
were at 111. The Federal Funds interest rate was at 1.0 percent. There were
great trading opportunities, many of which I was able to take advantage.
THINGS CHANGE
Times changed, as did prices of these raw commodities. Other hard asset
products, including housing and real estate, besides the commodity mar-
kets, skyrocketed in value. Things changed; global tensions mounted as we
1

cintro.qxd 9/25/06 9:26 AM Page 2
2 CANDLESTICK AND PIVOT POINT TRADING TRIGGERS
invaded Iraq trying to set a country free. Nations’ economies grew
as new opportunities emerged in places such as China and India. Global
economic growth pushed demand for products through the roof, creating
spectacular price gains. Things changed alright, even intermarket relation-
ships. Gold went up on fears of inflationary pressures in light of the Federal
Reserve (Fed) raising interest rates. In turn, the U.S. dollar rallied as the in-
terest rate differentials widened here in the United States against foreign
central banks.
THE CONUNDRUM
One favorite word among economists in 2005 was conundrum, which was
used by then-chairman of the Federal Reserve Alan Greenspan. This was
the term he used to describe the event of Treasury yields declining while
the Fed was raising interest rates. The Federal Reserve moved to raise in-
terest rates 14 consecutive times in 0.25 percent increments in an effort to
reduce inflationary pressures. Bond yields, instead of moving in tandem
with the Fed’s rate hikes, declined. Short-term Treasury instruments were
yielding more than longer-term, and what developed was known as a flat-
tening of the yield curve. At some points, we even had an inversion effect,
where longer-term interest rate instrument yields were lower than shorter-
term. Throughout history, that is a sign that the economy will soon proceed
into a recession.
HISTORY SHOULD REPEAT ITSELF
Often it is said that history repeats itself. Economies and the world move in
cycles. Based on the market’s price behavior and the climb that commod-
ity prices had, intermarket relationships were not moving in a traditional
way in 2005, or at least not in a manner in which they had in the past. His-
tory should have repeated itself, but it did not; or if it does, it will be a de-
layed reaction. Due to this keen observation, there was one solid piece of
advice I was constantly giving to people through our trading room or in my
newsletter advisory service. It was, “Trade the markets independently of
each other.” One reason for this advice was this: Not much was making
sense at times in the traditional way. Let’s face it, when crude oil or ener-
gies shoot to the moon, it is inflationary and has a taxing effect on con-
sumers. We would have expected stocks to sell off sharply, and they did not
(they did not rally much either in 2005). When federal deficits soar, it cre-
ates inflationary pressures; when the Fed raises interest rates, yields should

cintro.qxd 9/25/06 9:26 AM Page 3
Introduction 3
go up and Treasury prices should go down. The key word is “should go
down.” What happened was just the opposite. Gold was the only mover that
acted in response to investors’ demand for protection on resurgence in in-
flation. In fact, at times, price swings of gold interacted well with crude oil.
DELAYED REACTION
As of February 2006, the U.S. economy was in its third year of an economic
recovery. It remained a stock picker’s market, as we did see stellar moves
from Apple, Rambus, AMD, and other lost hopefuls. But there were other
investors who were expanding their knowledge in trading other investment
assets, such as foreign currencies. There were others who made fortunes in
real estate. Unemployment in January 2006 was reported at 4.7 percent.
Times were good and were probably going to remain good forever! Well,
that’s where I must say, “You can’t cheat history.” As the old saying goes, if
it’s got four legs and a tail, it’s probably an animal. I see a delayed reaction
and an economic downturn. Will it be the end of civilization as we know it
today? I doubt it. However, I believe we will go into a period of an economic
slowdown. Why? For starters, usually we see energy and commodity prices
rally near the peak of an economic upturn. Then, as the Fed fights inflation,
they will continue to put the brakes on and continue to raise interest rates.
Since no one knows for sure how soon or by how much consumers will ad-
just their spending habits, usually the Fed will go too far. That will slow bor-
rowing and increase debt payments, especially on all those adjustable
mortgage rates (ARMs) that so many people have. Yes, I believe an eco-
nomic downturn will occur. I just believe it will be a delayed reaction. It
seems that most cycles have stretched a little further than people believe.
Just ask all the folks who predicted a stock market crash in 1999. They
were right, but quite a bit off in their timing. That leaves one to wonder
where to go to make money.
TRADING FOR A LIVING
If you don’t already know of my past, I started in the business as a runner
on the floor of the Chicago Mercantile Exchange back in the late 1970s. I
had the privilege of working with a true master trader, George Lane, the
creator of stochastics. I had a knack for the financial markets and learned
to trade the 30-year bonds. I also discovered how to use pivot points and
how to incorporate longer-term time periods in my analysis. Then came op-
tions on commodities; and in 1986 I made a fortune for myself and others in

cintro.qxd 9/25/06 9:26 AM Page 4
4 CANDLESTICK AND PIVOT POINT TRADING TRIGGERS
the bond market. I gradually improved my techniques; and through the un-
derstanding of candle charts while using them in conjunction with pivot
points, I have developed quite a methodology that shows a high frequency
of recurring patterns. This is what I believe is one of the single best meth-
ods for identifying market moves for various trading vehicles. Trading for a
living is a fabulous career. Now more than ever, we have global market in-
fluences, advanced technology, equal access, market liquidity, and, best of
all, diversified markets investment vehicles. We have forex, or foreign cur-
rency exchange; futures products to day trade; and commodities that allow
speculators to participate in a structured, regulated, open marketplace that
offers leverage. Then we have stocks to participate in investing for long-
term growth. And there is a new breed of investment asset, exchange
traded funds. Most of these products offer options so as to hedge or specu-
late to fully capture a market opportunity and develop the right strategy to
enhance rewards wile reducing risks.
THE NEW AGE TECHNICIAN
As a technician, one who practices the art of technical analysis, I have now
more than at any time in the past a greater edge in the marketplace.
Through electronic market access and charting software with the power of
today’s computers, I can take my refined market analysis methods and im-
plement these strategies and apply them to all markets. As long as there is
liquidity and a structured environment, and as long as I keep my trading
capital intact, follow specific trading rules to manage risk, there will be a
bonanza of opportunities in the years ahead. I fully expect the techniques
that I am sharing with you in this book to help you discover how to be a
consistently profitable trader. This book opens the door to how you can
learn to read charts and rely on price rather than on indicators. You will
learn what triggers momentum and what to look for in order to spot when
a market changes direction. Another important element of this book is that
it will help you learn techniques to cut your losses quickly and to stay with
the winning trend, to ride a winning tide.

c01.qxd 9/24/06 9:48 AM Page 5
CHAPTER 1
Trading Vehicles,
Stock, ETFs,
Futures,
and Forex
W
elcome to Trading Triggers. If you are an active trader or a first-
time investor looking for a trading method that suits your person-
ality, then you have the right book. Trading for a living is an
amazing and yet risky business. There is more to trading than buying and
selling. There are often-missed but important issues that many books do
not mention, such as not only how to make money in the market but also
how to keep it and create a positive cash flow. The purpose of this book is
to take you to a new level of trading knowledge by giving detailed explana-
tions of technical tools that will help you develop your own trading system
so you can cultivate and extract money from the market, especially those
traders who want high alpha (big returns) with reasonable standard devia-
tion (volatility). I will explain some of the most obvious yet simple concepts
of how to interpret technical analysis and improve your chart-reading skills
so you can make money in the markets.
There are two theories on how markets perform: efficient market the-
ory and random walk theory.
1. Efficient market theory lends to the belief that markets are always
priced correctly because the current price reflects all factual informa-
tion. If the markets are efficient, then no fundamental information will
give an investor an edge in the market.
2. Random walk theorylends to the belief that price movements do not
follow any pattern or trend and that past price behavior cannot be used
5

c01.qxd 9/24/06 9:48 AM Page 6
6 CANDLESTICK AND PIVOT POINT TRADING TRIGGERS
to predict future price movements. In other words, the markets are
completely unpredictable.
I fall in the category of believing that history can and does repeat itself.
People can and do make money based on technical analysis, and I am here
to help prove it.
IMPORTANCE OF A RULE-BASED APPROACH
You may have heard of Jesse Livermore, who was immortalized by Edwin
Lefèvre’s book Reminiscences of a Stock Operator (G. H. Doran, 1923;
Wiley, 2006). Jesse was considered one of the greatest speculators of his
day. Many of his principles and ideas are still used. His three key concepts
of trading are (1) timing, (2) risk management, and (3) emotional control.
This quote from Richard Smitten’s Trade Like Jesse Livermore(Wiley,
2005, p. 70) sticks with me because it is as true now as it ever was (keep in
mind that Jesse committed suicide in 1940, so this was stated nearly 70
years ago): “All through time, people have basically acted the same way in
the stock and commodity markets as a result of greed, fear, ignorance, and
hope: that is why the formations and patterns recur on a constant basis. The
patterns the traders and technicians observe are simply the reflections of
human emotional behavior.”
Most traders who are consistently profitable have learned to develop a
rule-based approach that doesn’t change. They have within their arsenal of
trading tools, definitive, recognizable, and frequently reoccurring patterns
that can be used to trade by a set of established trading rules. They can
clearly define, without guessing or using a vague approach, support and re-
sistance levels and what to do once prices reach those levels. Moreover,
they have the ability to clearly define their entry, stop-loss, or risk parame-
ters and their profit objectives in a consistent, repetitious fashion each time
they place a trade. This is what I do when trading my own account and what
I have taught my son and even my own father. My dad used to think trading
commodities was like gambling until I showed him a method. This is the
same method that will be disclosed in these pages.
It is important for you to realize that it is the emotional balance that
helps keep you on the profitable side of the ledger. You must never anti-
cipate what the market might do, but rather wait for confirmation on
your triggers.
Most traders who are profitable are flexible as to the anticipated out-
come that may occur on each trade. Successful traders have the mindset to
develop the perspective that their trading business is to manage their

c01.qxd 9/24/06 9:48 AM Page 7
Trading Vehicles, Stock, ETFs, Futures, and Forex 7
money rather than to predict the future. Successful traders can emotionally
handle losing trades or the negative trades that result from an error or
trading equipment malfunction. Remember that the business of trading
for a living requires that you establish some kind of structure in a market-
place with countless variables. Why not consider trading by a set of rules?
Most traders do not trade by a system; the term “black box” just means
that a trader has input a set of trading parameters and automatically exe-
cutes a trade based on a specific set of criteria—strict rules to automati-
cally trade by.
START TRADING AS A BUSINESS
If you are currently trading for a living or if you are expanding your knowl-
edge to learn how to trade for a living, remember that this is a business. You
need to treat it like a business. Therefore, some considerations need to be
made, for example, forming a corporation in order to deduct such expenses
as your computer equipment, quote feed, DSL (digital subscriber line), of-
fice rent, travel to investment conferences, and continued education semi-
nars. What matters most to every trader and investor is creating a positive
cash flow. You wouldn’t want to finally start learning to make money con-
sistently in the market and find out that you cannot take any expense de-
ductions. You should seek advice from a tax specialist so that you can take
advantage of all regular and necessary expenses as business deductions
and save thousands of dollars each year.
Let’s add up the examples I mentioned: Suppose your quote feed is
$200 per month and your DSL is $40 per month. Renting a small one-room
office could run $500 to $700 per month. Then there are equipment ex-
penses, such as your desktop computers, a laptop for travel, monitors and
printers and ink cartridges and general office supplies to purchase and up-
grade from time to time, say $2,000. Attending an investment conference
could mean $700 roundtrip airfare, plus $250 per night for hotel and meals.
If you have business entertaining expenses and went to at least two con-
ferences per year, you could be talking as little as $5,000 to as much as
$25,000 in actual business expenses that can be deducted if you are running
trading as a business.
If you are a first-time smaller investor and decide that trading for a liv-
ing is something you have the financial resources, time, and emotional
makeup to do, what business plan do you have in place to protect the
money you make in the market? Where will you put your profits as a short-
term trader? Some traders have had many problems with this issue; it is
similar to the old expression of “Robbing Peter to pay Paul.” After all, who

c01.qxd 9/24/06 9:48 AM Page 8
8 CANDLESTICK AND PIVOT POINT TRADING TRIGGERS
wants to make money in a buy-and-hold long-term position strategy only to
give it back day trading, and vice versa.
I am going to show you a trading method based on combining candle
charts, to help identify shifts in momentum, and pivot point analysis. I will
teach you very succinct rules, which is what I have taught to professional
traders on the floor of the exchanges and introduced to thousands of pri-
vate investors, including other leading trading educators who now effec-
tively teach my trading methods. I will walk you through deciding what
investment vehicles are available, when and how to decide which invest-
ment vehicle would better suit a trader under various market conditions,
and how to develop a trading strategy based on the specific trading triggers.
EDUCATION IS THE KEY TO SUCCESS
Traders need and, moreover, have an obligation and responsibility to un-
derstand as much as possible about how the markets that they trade work
and what makes them function. It is vital to your success that you continue
to learn not only about the market but also about your trading hardware or
computer equipment. For example, if you trade off a laptop, you should
know how to disable the tapping feature on the touch pad. After all, who
wants to accidentally place the wrong order on line? That has happened to
traders because the touch pad is ultrasensative. Simply moving your finger
or having your shirt sleeve touch the pad can act as an action click. Traders
should know how to set up and troubleshoot office or home Internet con-
nections or at least have a brokerage account that offers assistance in tak-
ing over-the-phone orders.
Traders need to learn and comprehend all the features and benefits
that charting software packages offer and should know all about the order
entry platforms and, more specifically, the brokerage firm rules and proce-
dures for trading. Traders should make sure the brokerage firm has the
title of the account set up so if ever there is a situation where you wish to
wire money into an account, it matches the name on the bank to your trad-
ing account. You don’t want an important wire to be rejected. In a situation
where you want to either put on more positions or add a second account to
trade a great opportunity, how sad it would be for back-office personnel to
reject the wire, resulting in a lost opportunity.
A great trader is always looking to learn. One of the best processes to
learn is asking a series of questions; evaluating the dynamics of a situation
or event; and seeking out how to take advantage of that event within the fi-
nancial resources, risk factors, and time constraints in place.
The traits that most professional and consistently profitable traders

c01.qxd 9/24/06 9:48 AM Page 9
Trading Vehicles, Stock, ETFs, Futures, and Forex 9
possess are that they follow a trading plan on extensively tested research
and limit losses while letting winning positions ride. Winning traders ex-
hibit the qualities of patience and discipline. The techniques that will be
taught in this book will help you master those two qualities.
Other traits that winners possess are that they diversify into various
trading positions, while committing only 10 to 40 percent of accounts equity
in the markets. Successful traders commit their full attention to the market
trends and prices, and they act on trading signals immediately.
They also seem to possess the ability to accept winners and embrace
losers, and they don’t let either of these outcomes generally influence their
next trade decision. They stay in the now and react to what the market is
currently doing. Winning traders take breaks from trading. Through con-
tinued education and the process of asking questions, they gain an edge and
stay on top of their competition through diversification or other more ad-
vanced trading strategies.
TRADERS NEED TO ASK MORE QUESTIONS
The process of asking questions is what is needed in order to gain more
knowledge. The trouble is, most traders do not have enough experience to
know what the right questions are. If you apply simple common sense,
then you will be on a great start to learn how to identify investing or trad-
ing opportunities and find the right strategy to take advantage of those
opportunities.
Some questions traders need to ask themselves include, just for
starters: How much time do I have to dedicate to the markets? If I enter a
day trade, do I have the time to watch this position, or do I have an ap-
pointment or meeting scheduled for that day? What are the possible out-
comes of what I am about to do, based on what I have control over?
Focus on what it is you want to achieve, write it out, and concentrate
on that goal. Think of the consequences or possible outcomes of your ac-
tions so you will have a more balanced emotional reaction if the outcome
is not as positive as you expected. Ask questions such as:
• Do market conditions warrant increasing or decreasing my position
size?
• Are there reports coming out that may impact the market or my posi-
tion?
• Are my entry and exit targets justified?
• If the market is so bearish, why won’t it go down?
• If the market is so bullish, why won’t it rally?

c01.qxd 9/24/06 9:48 AM Page 10
10 CANDLESTICK AND PIVOT POINT TRADING TRIGGERS
Trading without asking questions or without probing leads to trading
blindly or without a plan. It opens the door for destructive emotional inter-
ference. Another quote from Jesse Livermore helps confirm this: “There is
nothing new on Wall Street or in stock speculation. What has happened in
the past will happen again and again and again. This is because human na-
ture does not change, and it is human emotion that always gets in the way
of human intelligence. Of this I am sure.” (Smitten, Trade Like Jesse Liver-
more, p. 167)
That statement was made over 65 years ago and is without a doubt still
applicable to this day. Do not let your emotions get in the way of your trad-
ing decisions. If you ask the right question before placing a trade, you stand
to gain an edge on winning the emotional battle of trading. It is generally
those who are afraid of losing through fear itself who stand to lose because
that emotion will interfere with rational, well-thought-out trading plans.
Asking yourself the right questions will help you to choose a more apro-
priate investment vehicle or trading strategy. For example, ask yourself be-
fore entering a trade: What are the time expectations for a result to occur?
Do I have availability of time to see the trade through? Would short-term
day trading or swing trading be possible if I have a regular day time job? In
what time zone do I start work? This is relevant because a person living on
the West Coast could trade an early morning market such as the Chicago
Board of Trade (CBOT) bond contract opening session; however, a person
with an early morning job may want to consider foreign currency or forex
(Foreign Exchange) trading on the European session starting at night.
In order to know what time demands you need, you should also ask
yourself if you have the tolerance for trading a leveraged product and if
you have the tolerance for the risks: Should I use a time period stop—if the
market does not move or react within a specified time period, should I exit
the position? Should I use a conditional stop, such as a “stop-close only”
order? Does my order platform take such orders, or do I need to manually
watch and then implement such an order? (In intraday trading, the answer
is yes, you need to manually watch the close of the time period you are trad-
ing in.) Can I afford to place a stop, say, 10 or 20 percent of my overall ac-
count value?
You need to be clear and honest with yourself when answering these
evaluation questions. Remind yourself by asking: Why am I trading? What
are my expectations? (I have met too many people that look at trading as an
easy and quick way to make money or to replace their current career.)
Based on your trading account size or your risk capital, ask: What returns
will I need in order to generate sufficient income? Is my starting equity size
or bank roll inclusive of my living expenses? Are my expectations on that
return realistic on a constant basis?
These questions are important because they will help you to determine

c01.qxd 9/24/06 9:48 AM Page 11
Trading Vehicles, Stock, ETFs, Futures, and Forex 11
which type of investment vehicle and which type of diversified trading
strategies you can incorporate into your trading repertoire.
RISK PER TRADE
A most important yet simple thought process that a trader can start with is
learning how to determine how much equity to put into any one trade or po-
sition. How much to risk per trade is a concept that many novice traders fail
to realize until it is way too late. They end up learning the exact wiring in-
structions on a regular basis to their brokerage account; the real hard cases
end up remembering those instructions by heart. Once you learn and have
the confidence to trade a system or follow a trading plan with a set of con-
ditions and specific rules, you still need to have an effective method for risk
controls. I would start by considering how much risk per trade I should use
by looking at my overall account size, then at the market’s volatility and liq-
uidity conditions, and then at a certain percentage of the overall account on
a percentage basis. Let me show you what I mean; and when we go over
various stop types and methods later in the book, you will be able to better
comprehend my meaning. If a person wanting to start a day trading ac-
count begins with $10,000 and uses a 10 percent risk factor per trade based
on the overall beginning equity size, if the first five trades go bad, then he
or she has lost 50 percent of the overall account. Therefore, it is imperative
that traders learn different techniques to protect their trading equity. In-
vestors also need to know the number of positions with which they should
start in connection to the account size and the point at which they add on
to their contract lot or position size. In Chapter 11, I will go over a method
to help you determine answers to those questions. Then you will have a bet-
ter understanding of a proper ratio and the point at which you should start
to increase your trading size.
NUMBER ONE TRADING FOCUS—RISK MANAGEMENT
As most trading books will explain, risk management is the key to survival
and what trading is really all about. While it may sound like a cliché, the
hard truth is that consistently profitable trading, in my opinion, significantly
depends on proper risk taking and risk management combined. Winning
traders follow a tried-and-tested plan based on rules or on a defined set of
criteria. Winning traders recognize the importance of risk management and
of money management. As I stated in my first book, the common denomi-

c01.qxd 9/24/06 9:48 AM Page 12
12 CANDLESTICK AND PIVOT POINT TRADING TRIGGERS
nator among losing traders was that most guess and hope and usually say,
when asked about placing a stop-loss or taking a profit, “I’ll think about it.”
Always remember that when trading with a set of rules, you will never
be 100 percent right. But if you do not follow a set of rules, you increase
the odds of being 100 percent wrong in your trading. If you manage your
trading risks and execute promptly on the trade signal, then you increase
the odds that you will be successful. When trading, your mind can play
tricks on you. You start to anticipate a buy signal only to act on a false sig-
nal. You need to learn when and how an actual signal is generated and
what and when you should trigger the action to initiate a trade. When you
are trading market signals by a predefined set of rules and a set of criteria,
then the mind cannot play tricks on you. When a signal says buy, then buy;
when a signal says sell, then sell. It’s that simple. Generally speaking, from
my experience, if a trader says, “I am tired of this,” and decides not to take
the signal, that ignored signal is the one that becomes a big winner. If you
have traded before, you may relate to that syndrome. For day traders in
stock or stock index futures, this usually happens in the last hour of the
trading session!
DIVERSIFICATION IS THE KEY TO SUCCESS
This observation was written by Peter L. Bernstein in his book Against the
Gods, The Remarkable Story of Risk (Wiley, 1996):
All of the tools we use today in risk management and in the analysis of
decisions, from the strict rationality of game theory to the challenges of
chaos theory, stem from the mathematical developments that took
place between 1654 and 1760 with two exceptions: In 1875 Francis Gal-
ton, an amateur mathematician, discovered regression to the mean;
and in 1952, Nobel Laureate Harry Markowitz, then a young graduate
student at the University of Chicago, demonstrated mathematically
why putting all your eggs in one basket is an unacceptably risky strat-
egy and why diversification is the nearest an investor or business
manager can ever come to a free lunch. That revelation touched off the
intellectual movement that revolutionized Wall Street, corporate fi-
nance, and business decisions around the world; its effects are still
being felt today. (pp. 5–6)
With that notion came the concept of exploiting diversification by
means of spreading investment and risk capital in various markets, such as
stocks, bonds, real estate, precious metals, and commodities. There are

c01.qxd 9/24/06 9:48 AM Page 13
Trading Vehicles, Stock, ETFs, Futures, and Forex 13
various methods to trade those investment vehicles through the use of real
estate investment trust (REIT) mutual funds, exchange traded funds
(ETFs), and other derivatives products, like single stock futures, stock
index futures, and options. There are simple and complex strategies even
more so with the use of options and inter- and intramarket spreading or pair
trading opportunities. We will cover some sophisticated strategies in this
book as well as basic investment strategies to help you create your own re-
tirement fund.
HABITUAL WINNERS FOLLOW TRADING PLANS
Traders need to consider new techniques that will allow for increased prof-
itability and ways to reduce risks. This book will demonstrate how you can
identify conditional changes in the markets and how you can utilize my
techniques in certain setups and triggers based on an approach to using
candle charts and pivot point analysis that may be different from what you
have encountered before.
You will learn which leading price indicators are the best to use, plus
professional chart-reading techniques and how to apply this knowledge to
make trading decisions based on facts rather than on opinions. You would
be surprised at how many times I am asked what my “feeling” is on the mar-
ket. I can feel upset, I can feel warm, I can feel cold; but I just can’t feel the
market. I can see the price action and can act on a shift in the momentum,
and I can determine that the market is currently in an uptrend or a down-
trend or in a consolidation phase. I certainly can’t feel the market.
I want to walk you through some top chart patterns or setups and trig-
gers so that you can develop a trading plan based on a testable trading sys-
tem. This will be a method with a complete set of rules that do not
arbitrarily change. You will be able to use these concepts in many different
markets and in different time frames. This book will go into more specific
rules and explanations of setups and triggers than my first book did. Not
only was that first project, The Complete Guide to Technical Trading Tac-
tics: How to Profit Using Pivot Points, Candlesticks, & Other Indicators,
a great introductory book that touched on several trading concepts, but it
was the first work that introduced traders to the concept of integrating
candlestick charting with pivot point analysis. Some of the principles in
that first project will be used here, but this book will cover in greater de-
tail how to apply and use those methods so you can learn to make money
with the triggers. I would suggest that you get that book if you have not al-
ready done so, as there are many great tips and suggestions described in
those pages.

c01.qxd 9/24/06 9:48 AM Page 14
14 CANDLESTICK AND PIVOT POINT TRADING TRIGGERS
In this book, I want to teach you what to search for when chart reading.
I am not going to go into detail on every specific candlestick chart pattern
because I generally only use them to help identify where the market closes
in relationship to the open or the past price points, such as the high or low
points, rather than rely on them to signal a trade based on traditional chart
formations.
I believe that, like many things in life, the more you repeat positive ac-
tions, the more you will experience and receive positive reactions. In trad-
ing, that translates to simply following rules, waiting for signals to
transpire, and then acting on those signals, rather than anticipating that sig-
nals will form. When signals trigger a buy, then go long; when a signal trig-
gers a sell, then exit the long or go short. As I stated earlier, following a set
of rules will not guarantee that you will be 100 percent right in your trading
results; but by not following a set of rules, your chances increase that you
may be closer to 100 percent wrong in your trading results. One must learn
to cut losses and let winning trades ride. It sounds like a cliché to trading
veterans; but the fact is that it is so simple, yet it is so hard to do. By ac-
cepting this process of learning some simple principles and then following
a few sets of rules, which I will go into in this book, you become a better
trader; and that may translate into becoming a more profitabletrader.
One trait I have noticed that most novice traders possess is that they
try to overanalyze and overcomplicate matters. In order to help simplify
your thinking, remember this: There are only four common denominators
that each of us has equal access to—the open, the high, the low, and the
closeof any given market, in any given time frame. There are two other val-
ues to measure: volume and, for futures traders, open interest. However,
even these two elements cannot be finalized or completely calculated until
the close of each trading session. Therefore, it is important that you realize
that the closeis the single most important aspect when using and applying
all forms of technical analysis studies.
So no matter what market or trading vehicle you are trading—whether
it is a stock, a futures or commodity market, a stock index, the forex cur-
rency markets, or even an exchange traded fund, you need to watch the
closeof the time period in which you are trading to capture a clue in order
to initiate a trade, manage the trade, and learn the right exit spot. Always re-
member that the close is the most important element and what matters
most to focus on when trading. It is the relationship of the close to past
price action and to the high, the low, and the openthat will help measure or
weigh a value of a given market at any given time. Therefore, you can get a
more accurate gauge of what to do. In trading terms, the choices you have
are to buy, to sell, to spread off, or to do nothing and hold onto your cash.
Sometimes not knowing what to do translates into not entering a position.
Remember that being in cash or standing on the sidelines is a trade, too.

c01.qxd 9/24/06 9:48 AM Page 15
Trading Vehicles, Stock, ETFs, Futures, and Forex 15
Once you grasp the understanding that it is the close that shows you
what the current market value is, then you should have a clue as what your
next trading decision should be. If you learn to act on the close for your
trading decisions and on triggers, that information will help stack the odds
in your favor that you are going with the current flow or in the right market
direction. That includes any time period for which you are trading. That
means if you are a day trader using a 5-minute period, you cannot act on an
intratime period signal. You need to wait for the five-minute period to con-
clude before acting on a trigger. The same goes for a 5-minute, a 60-minute,
a daily, a weekly, or even a monthly time period.
The clues for which we as traders are looking are what we need to ini-
tiate a trading decision and are what I define as a trading trigger, which will
be explained later in the book. Once you understand how markets work,
understand simple charting techniques, and have a fundamental working
knowledge of indicators and what dictates increases or decreases in values
of a given product at a given time (such as supply and demand factors) and
how that is represented on a chart, then you will have gained a better edge
in the market and will have stacked the odds of success in your favor.
There is one flaw in any system, and it is generally from the execution
side rather than from the construction side of the system. To be specific,
most traders who lose while trading a system fail to trade by the signals
generated by that system. Either they fail to act once the signal is gener-
ated, or they anticipate that a signal will be generated thus acting on a
false signal.
It is imperative that once you read this book you learn that you must
wait for the actual signal to trigger, and that occurs in most cases by the
close of the time period in which you are trading. Even when a system gen-
erates a losing trade, it will signal a trigger to get out. You must act on con-
firmed signals rather than on anticipation of those signals or, more
important, on your personal hunches.
Once you have a working knowledge of the markets and the confidence
in what the possible outcome of those triggers might be, working with a few
setups and signals will allow you to find a trading opportunity; and then you
will be able to apply the appropriate strategy. You can diversify trading
styles, such as integrating a day trade into a position trade, utilizing an op-
tion strategy, or applying the information on various trading vehicles.
I talked about this concept of “finding opportunity, then applying a
strategy” in my first book: I called it playing the Monte Hall game, Let’s
Make a Deal. Look behind door number one, and review the risk rewards;
then look at the strategy behind door number two, and review the risk and
rewards there; and then finally open door number three, and see if that
strategy appeals to your analysis of risk and rewards. Remember, you can
determine, if an opportunity is longer term in nature, to use an option strat-

c01.qxd 9/24/06 9:48 AM Page 16
16 CANDLESTICK AND PIVOT POINT TRADING TRIGGERS
egy (such as an outright long call or put); a ratio back spread; or, if the best
opportunity exists taking a position in a stock, a stock index future or pos-
sibly an ETF or a holding company depositary receipt (HOLDR).
INVESTMENT VEHICLES
There are all types of trading and investment vehicles. Some are slightly
more complex than others, and some offer increased leverage, such as fu-
tures and even forex currency markets. Some have short life spans due to
expirations, such as an option or a futures contract. A trader or an investor
needs to examine his or her personality profiles, tolerance for risk, personal
time availability to devote to trading, and the time objective or turnover for
achieving specific profit objectives. Once those are determined, then he or
she needs to choose the right trading vehicle or a mixture of asset classes
in order to apply a trading strategy.
Therefore, it is important to have several different types of trading ac-
counts for taking advantage of various investment products and levels of
risk, such as long-term retirement versus short-term speculative trading op-
portunities. A stock account will allow you to trade stocks, stock options,
mutual funds, and ETFs.
A futures account will allow you to take advantage of the many oppor-
tunities of various commodity markets and options, in addition to day and
swing trading the highly liquid stock index futures markets such as the
Dow, Standard & Poor’s (S&P), Russell 2000, and Nasdaq 100 contracts.
Some futures brokerage firms even have access for spot foreign currency
trading on their trading platforms. I have been in the futures and trading
business since 1978. I trade my own money, I have been a broker, managed
a brokerage firm, owned a trading firm, but, most of all, I enjoy trading my
own money. In fact, the principles I am sharing in this book are the same
techniques that I have taught my family. Remember that my father used to
think commodity trading or day trading was like gambling. But at age 71, he
started gaining an interest in what I was doing, especially as he saw the
fruits of my labors. More important, he witnessed the trading successes my
son was also achieving and started to see that the pattern of what I was
doing was teachable. In 2002, I had my son start a retirement stock account
with what I call a core position of select stocks. One such stock was Gen-
eral Electric, which he purchased at 24.60; another stock I had him pur-
chase was Rambus at 5.62. In both cases, he made out extremely well. In
fact, if you know stocks, you may recognize that those prices were darn
close to the exact lows in 2003. Let me tell you it was not by chance or luck
that I had picked those prices; it was by using the methods I am going to de-
scribe in this book.

c01.qxd 9/24/06 9:48 AM Page 17
Trading Vehicles, Stock, ETFs, Futures, and Forex 17
Incidentally, here is how my son got hooked on day trading: In early
2005, he was watching me on one of my appearances on CNBC. My son is
self-employed; he owns cellular phone stores and sells satellite dish sys-
tems. He keeps the television on in his stores to show customers the satel-
lite systems. After watching my appearance on CNBC, he left the television
on; later that day, he started listening to Mad Money—the Jim Crammer
show. Anyway, my son started trading his own stock account.
He called me one day to ask my opinion on a particular stock. That’s
when I found out what he was up to. Now, my son is pretty smart; but there
were several things he was not familiar with, for instance, what a stop-loss
order was. As you might imagine, I was insanely furious with him for not
knowing important yet basic concepts of trading. After I got through yelling
at him, his mom (my wife) got hold of him; after that conversation, one of
my trading courses was shipped out FedEx, and he quickly studied. He got
back on the right track, gained an interest, and learned how to trade by my
set of rules and by looking for such trading patterns as a high close doji
(HCD) buy signal and a low close doji (LCD) sell signal. Both of these spe-
cific setups and triggers are covered in this book. The next course of action
was to get him set up with the right markets to day trade and to open the
right brokerage account to meet his needs for both his short- and long-term
objectives. Now this is what I taught my son, and he has been consistently
improving in his trading ever since. That is what my Dad saw, and he found
merit in my methods. Therefore, I hope this solidifies your belief that
traders can and do make money trading in the markets. Just find the right
methods with which you are comfortable, stick to the trading rules (such as
waiting for the triggers, rather than anticipating and acting prematurely),
find and investment strategy (such as day, swing, or position trading), and
then get confident that you are applying the right strategy with the right
product (whether it is stocks, futures, options, foreign currencies, or forex
markets). You have the potential to become a successful trader once you
have these conditions mastered. The next process is finding the right soft-
ware product and brokerage firm.
I have been in the industry for over a quarter of a century, so I know
what to look for in both trading firm and software that suit my needs. I have
the experience to know that not all trading companies are equal. The plain
truth about it is that some companies are just better than others. Remem-
ber the debacle of REFCO? These guys were a behemoth in the futures and
spot foreign currency trading business. They had a ton of talented people,
some who are ex-employees of mine and some who I consider friends. I
never did trade through them. Mainly, I was happy elsewhere. But as the
years passed, REFCO just became too big. I like personalized service, and
I don’t need a company to provide me with daily research. You need to find
out what appeals to you and how to make a brokerage firm work for you.

c01.qxd 9/24/06 9:48 AM Page 18
18 CANDLESTICK AND PIVOT POINT TRADING TRIGGERS
It’s not the other way around. Keep in mind that a brokerage firm should be
considered an employee—it works for you! I have a rating sheet for my sub-
scribers of my advisory service of the pros and cons of several brokerage
firms. If and when you are looking for a brokerage firm and want to see a
ratings consensus, just visit www.nationalfutures.com, where I can give
you a heads up on the pros and cons of several trading firms and the ones
that I have accounts with. You can use it to find out which one fits your
trading needs. As I say, some are better than others. Trading expenses such
as commissions are important, but dealing with a cheap deep-discount
commission brokerage firm that has no backup support does not suit my
needs. A solid company that has competitively priced commissions, a loyal
support staff, and pleasant customer service is what I look for. I like one
that actually answers the phones and takes care of an issue immediately;
that is the ideal company to do business with, and there are many of them.
That is the information I share on my web site.
FX—FOREX
You may be familiar with or have heard the termforeign exchange market,
which is known as the spot forex or FX market or foreign currency market.
It is an over-the-counter foreign currency market. You can trade foreign
currencies against the dollar, which is knows as the cross, such as the euro
currency versus the U.S. dollar; or you can trade pairs, which is two sepa-
rate foreign currencies traded against each other, such as the euro versus
the Japanese yen. It is a 24-hour marketplace in which most companies do
not charge commissions; rather, a spread on each side of the bid-and-ask of
a trade is taken. Traders like this feature because they feel it is a “pay as you
go” cost of doing business.
This book will go into explaining several investment vehicles, such as
stocks, futures, options, and forex. I want you to realize that the technical
trading patterns, setups, and triggers I will teach and explain in this book
are applicable to all of these trading vehicles.
STOCK TRADING OPPORTUNITIES
Stocks offer opportunities to long-term investors based on a company’s
performance. There are many advantages and disadvantages when trading
stocks. Some feel that stocks should be a buy-and-hold investment vehicle,
and I agree to some extent. I believe the world and business move in cycles,
as does any industry or business sector. Investors need to monitor which

c01.qxd 9/24/06 9:48 AM Page 19
Trading Vehicles, Stock, ETFs, Futures, and Forex 19
sector or industry is hot or running cold, as the dot-com bubble demon-
strated. Since we can learn from history and a picture speaks a thousand
words, let’s go over a few chart examples if you want to know more about
the disadvantages of investing in stocks. If you were invested in these com-
panies, had a bad experience, and do not want to be reminded, just flip
through these next few pages. If you are new to the investment world and
want to know how fast fortunes and retirement accounts were lost, just ask
investors who bought Enron, WorldCom, United Airlines, Kmart, and FAO
Schwartz just before these companies filed for bankruptcy. And that is just
a few of the companies that took major dives. There are those investors
that are hanging onto hopes of their stocks coming back to life, companies
like Lucent, as shown in Figure 1.1. Lucent Technologies, Inc., engages in
the design and delivery of systems, services, and software to communica-
tions service providers, governments, and enterprises worldwide. It will
take a lot more patience to see this stock come back to life. This stock was
going to be the next IBM of the telecommunications world, which goes to
prove that you can’t believe everything you hear.
FIGURE 1.1
RealTick graphics used with permission of Townsend Analytics, LTD.

c01.qxd 9/24/06 9:48 AM Page 20
20 CANDLESTICK AND PIVOT POINT TRADING TRIGGERS
Then there was the new age revolution of fiber optics. Remembers JDS
Uniphase? This company provides communications test and measurement
solutions and optical products for telecommunications service providers,
cable operators, and network equipment manufacturers. The company op-
erates in three segments: Optical Communications, Commercial and Con-
sumer, and Communications Test and Measurement. As Figure 1.2 shows,
this stock has just never come back to life.
Then there are some companies that had investors gleaming with joy—
that there was never a chance those stocks would drop, but drop they did.
However, not all stories have bad endings. Take a look at Rambus, Inc., a
company that provides chip interface products and services. Its memory in-
terface products include XDR memory interface, RDRAM memory inter-
face, and DDR controller interface technologies, which provide an interface
between memory chips and logic chips. Figure 1.3 shows that there is life
and hope for some stocks, this one included.
One more darling from the Internet craze was Red Hat, Inc., which pro-
vided a competitive operating system to Microsoft. Red Hat has related
FIGURE 1.2
RealTick graphics used with permission of Townsend Analytics, LTD.

c01.qxd 9/24/06 9:48 AM Page 21
Trading Vehicles, Stock, ETFs, Futures, and Forex 21
FIGURE 1.3
RealTick graphics used with permission of Townsend Analytics, LTD.
software and services based on open source technology for various enter-
prises. Its products include Red Hat Enterprise and Linux Red Hat Appli-
cation Solutions, which include software for managing web content and
software development. The Linux systems and storage availability was a
sure thing for investors, one of those “can’t lose” propositions. As Figure 1.4
shows, that is not how Wall Street saw it in the long run or how it rewarded
the stock price. However, there is hope; and as you can see, the stock is
springing to life. The examples here illustrate how investors need to watch
over their own investments. The markets generally overreact both on rallies
and on declines. Sectors and business cycles change; competition can force
companies to lower prices, thus resulting in lower profit margins. Business
models, consumer spending habits, and the leadership or management of a
firm can change. That can have a direct impact on and can change the
morale and the business structure of a company. And that is what can affect
a company’s bottom line.
The dot-com implosion and stock market crash did not wipe out all
companies; and, of course, some companies fared better than others. A
great example of bringing a company back to life is, without a doubt, Apple
Computer, Inc.! This company manufactures, designs, and markets per-

c01.qxd 9/24/06 9:48 AM Page 22
22 CANDLESTICK AND PIVOT POINT TRADING TRIGGERS
FIGURE 1.4
RealTick graphics used with permission of Townsend Analytics, LTD.
sonal computers and related software, services, peripherals, and network-
ing solutions worldwide. The company’s products and services include the
Macintosh line of desktop and notebook computers. It was the introduction
of the iPod portable digital music player, accessories, and services that
helped propel this company into a killer performer and one of the best
comeback stocks from the dot-com and stock market peak in 2001. Steve
Jobs is the cofounder and CEO of Apple; and as I stated a moment ago, it is
leadership and motivation that can help inspire a company to great for-
tunes, as Figure 1.5 shows.
When you look at a strong performer of a stock in a specific sector,
traders and investors are obviously looking for appropriate risk/reward op-
portunities to trade that stock. There are many choices and various strate-
gies to employ. This is the selection process of what we do in “finding
opportunities and selecting the right strategy.” Once again I call it the “let’s
make a deal” game. What we are doing is simply looking for the best strat-
egy that maximizes our level of expected returns while minimizing our
risks. We are looking for the optimal trading strategy. Traders can examine
and weigh what is the most apropriate risk/reward perspective:

c01.qxd 9/24/06 9:48 AM Page 23
Trading Vehicles, Stock, ETFs, Futures, and Forex 23
FIGURE 1.5
RealTick graphics used with permission of Townsend Analytics, LTD.
• Door Number One:Could be an outright stock purchase with a selec-
tive stop-loss.
• Door Number Two:Could be utilizing the options market. That can be
an exciting and worthwhile exploration of a simple purchase of a call
option to utilize leverage or the use of a more complex strategy, such as
a bull call spread, or a hedging program, such as a collar strategy. The
latter uses the premiums collected from the sale of an out-of-the-money
call option to purchase a close-to-the-money put option, which in turn
protects the price erosion of an underlying stock position.
• Door Number Three: Could be taking a trading opportunity by imple-
menting a spread strategy, which would involve buying one stock and
selling short another. This is a sophisticated strategy and one that be-
ginners should study extensively prior to implementing. However, if
you enjoy following and understanding who and what the competitor is
in a specific sector or industry group, this could be your cup of tea. Se-
lecting the right stocks requires extensive research and a good working
knowledge of the fundamentals of that sector or industry. After all, you

c01.qxd 9/24/06 9:48 AM Page 24
24 CANDLESTICK AND PIVOT POINT TRADING TRIGGERS
are looking for one company to outperform the competitor, so you
need to know as much as possible about that business.
Trading decisions and correct stock selection involve more than look-
ing at a chart and a few technical indicators. I believe it helps to look a lit-
tle deeper in expected earnings forecasts and price-to-earnings (P/E) ratios
to see if the stock is expensive or cheap relative to current prices. Calcu-
lating P/E ratios is an easy concept; for example, if a stock is trading at $40
per share and has an earnings of $4 per share, the P/E ratio would be the
price of the stock divided by the earnings—$40/$4, or 10 times earnings.
SPREAD TRADING TIPS
If you decide to take advantage of a spread trade, you should realize that it
is a risky business. You could be on the wrong side of both markets. Since
spreading involves selling short one stock and simultaneously buying an-
other stock, if the price goes in the opposite direction of both trades, you
can lose on both sides of the trade. Selling short is a hard concept for many
traders, both novice and experienced, to grasp. Believe it or not, there are
some folks who are not aware that you can sell first without owning the se-
curity. Short selling means you are betting that the price of a given product
will decline; therefore, you would be selling first without owning the un-
derlying product with the hopes of buying back later at a lower price. Sell-
ing short is considered highly speculative for stock traders; the process
involves “borrowing” the stock from the brokerage firm, if the firm has that
security in inventory. Shorting stock is very similar and should not scare in-
vestors. It is a very simple concept; in fact, it is just the opposite for longs.
You want to buy low and then sell out later at a higher price. With shorting,
you are selling first and buying back later, hopefully at a lower price to gen-
erate a profit.
There are certain restrictions; for one, you need to set up a margin ac-
count with your brokerage firm. Another restriction carries potential exe-
cution risks: Due to Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC)
regulations, there is what is known as the “uptick” rule. The uptick rule was
established in the 1930s to prevent a bear market raid on a stock. In order
to execute a trade, the stock needs to trade at a price higher than the pre-
ceding transaction price in the same security. For example, if you wanted
to enter a spread by selling Dell Inc. and buying Apple, you would have
been anticipating or looking for Apple to outperform Dell’s price gains. Or
if both stock prices decline, you would want Dell to decline more than
Apple. But in order to effectively execute that strategy, you would want to

c01.qxd 9/24/06 9:48 AM Page 25
Trading Vehicles, Stock, ETFs, Futures, and Forex 25
enter the sell side of the spread first because there are no restrictions on en-
tering the long side, just on the short side of the transaction. Let’s say you
enter the long side first without confirmation that you were filled on the
short side; if the market on the position you hold—the long side—goes
down and if both markets moved in tandem, you would need an uptick on
the short side in order to be in the spread. Imagine if you went long first and
the stock dropped. Then when you are finally able to execute the short
side, the market has plunged. That would translate into an actual loss. So if
you do not get filled first on the short side, the worst that can happen is that
you lose a trading opportunity. This is a great example of why traders have
the obligation of knowing all there is about the market they trade in. As you
can see in Figure 1.6, Dell has moved in the same direction as Apple, but
Apple has outperformed as a price leader. The spread opportunity between
these two computer manufacturers, long Apple and short Dell, would have
generated a tidy profit.
Another example of a spread opportunity within competitors of the
same industry or sector would be Best Buy versus Circuit City, as shown in
FIGURE 1.6
RealTick graphics used with permission of Townsend Analytics, LTD.

c01.qxd 9/24/06 9:48 AM Page 26
26 CANDLESTICK AND PIVOT POINT TRADING TRIGGERS
Figure 1.7. As consumers flocked to retail malls before the holidays to pur-
chase gifts such as Apple’s iPods, if you want long Best Buy as the sector
leader and short Circuit City, Best Buy stock outperformed Citcuit City
stock. As you can see from the chart, after the stock market bubble burst in
2000, Best Buy managed to maintain a positive trend higher. It is the lead-
ership of the company and the consumer loyalty that really have helped to
support this company’s growth and profitability. One reason is Best Buy
continued to sell appliances versus one of their rival competitors and as a
result they saw sales rise 7.7 percent from 2004 through 2005. They also had
aggressive gains in web sales, and online revenue jumped 40 percent as
more customers shopped and redeemed gift cards online for the same time
period.
Best Buy’s main competitor, Circuit City, decided or needed to cut back
and close stores and then discontinued selling appliances to stay afloat. It
depended on increasing DVD and CD sales and on electronic products. As
the housing boom materialized soon after that decision, Circuit City gave
up market share to Best Buy; and no doubt companies such as Home Depot
and Sears picked up increased revenues in appliance sales. Therefore, it
FIGURE 1.7
RealTick graphics used with permission of Townsend Analytics, LTD.

c01.qxd 9/24/06 9:48 AM Page 27
Trading Vehicles, Stock, ETFs, Futures, and Forex 27
FIGURE 1.8
RealTick graphics used with permission of Townsend Analytics, LTD.
was hard for Circuit City to reenter selling that product line. As you can see
in Figure 1.8, Circuit City’s stock just had not been a great performer in that
sector. The company was founded in 1949, so it has a long history and may
survive the competition. However, if consumers start to spend less on
home electronic products in 2006 and 2007, this company may have trouble
getting its stock price back up to the 2000 high near 65 per share. Circuit
City will need consumers to continue to buy and upgrade new televisions,
camcorders, and digital cameras to boost revenues. I personally have no in-
tentions of buying another camcorder; I barely use the one I have. As for
game software, game hardware, and personal computer software, those are
competitive products; so I believe Circuit City will have to do more to sur-
vive the next few years of what is being forecast as a consumer electronic
sales recession. Therefore, one would need to look closer at these two com-
panies and decide which one has more to gain or which one has more to
lose; once a decision is made, this would be a good pairs market for a
spreading strategy.
Investors have many trading opportunities with stocks, as you can see

c01.qxd 9/24/06 9:48 AM Page 28
28 CANDLESTICK AND PIVOT POINT TRADING TRIGGERS
from the preceding few pages. There are many ways to analyze a company,
from taking a simple look at the P/E ratio to using technical analysis stud-
ies. Investors can see which company is the leader in a specific sector and
invest with that leader. As you can see in the cases of Apple versus Dell and
Best Buy versus Circuit City, holding a diversified portfolio of stocks may
help investors see profits or a positive cash flow. Realistically, you can’t
own shares in every stock. Longer-term investing—you know, the buy-and-
hold mentality, sometimes referred to as the Warren Buffett method—helps
toward generating big gains in solid companies. But remember that World-
Com and even Lucent Technologies were solid companies at one point. So
the message here is that investors need not only to be selective in which
markets they buy and hold but also to monitor their positions. There is the
idea that you can buy stock in a company to which you relate or from which
you purchase products . . . companies like Starbucks, as shown in Figure
1.9. This company has solid growth, great coffee; it carries with each 20-
ounce cup, named a Vente, a solid jolt of caffeine. That is what keeps me
going back, day after day, dropping two dollars per cup for the Starbucks
“experience.” Starbucks has made stellar gains and is a great moneymaking
FIGURE 1.9
RealTick graphics used with permission of Townsend Analytics, LTD.

c01.qxd 9/24/06 9:48 AM Page 29
Trading Vehicles, Stock, ETFs, Futures, and Forex 29
stock. It has solid industry leadership, textbook marketing concepts, and,
more important, customer loyalty. These are all the qualities to look for
when selecting a long-term purchase.
BECOME THE NEXT WARREN BUFFETT
I believe that stocks should be traded as an investment, but there are many
ways to capture a profit. I must say for all investors and for every trader,
you can start your own mutual fund. It requires discipline not only to open
a stock account but also to fund it and add to it every month. If you are a
new investor, just reading this book to see if trading for a living is for you,
it is imperative that you start somewhere and start with a select stock ac-
count first. The discipline is that you should add money in the account
every month, like you are paying a bill. If you are under 30, consider it your
retirement. You are paying your bills in the future now. That is some of the
best advice anyone gave me, and I think it is worthy of passing on to you.
Once you gain more experience, you can separate long-term investing from
short-term speculative trading, which is one form of diversification. After
all, you may see a long period of flat performance in one of your core hold-
ings. Short-term day trading, if you have the time and resources, can be a re-
warding experience. Imagine owning Wal-Mart and for literally seven years
experiencing a loss to a flat performance. Figure 1.10 illustrates the mar-
ket’s sideways move in one of the world’s biggest retail stores.
If you are considering supplementing your investment techniques, one
of the many drawbacks of trading stocks for a short-term day trader with a
small trading account is that you are limited to how many trades you can
make, especially if your account is less than $25,000 and you are not signed
up for a margin account. In that case, you are limited to five round-trip buy-
and-sell trades per week due to SEC rules. So short-term trading would not
be a good consideration for stocks. That is where trading stock index fu-
tures and forex markets takes over, as I will explain in the following pages.
There is one high-risk, high-reward method of trading stocks that I have
not covered yet: getting in on an initial public offering (IPO) stock. Those
investors lucky enough to get in on an IPO like Google (goog), the Chicago
Mercantile Exchange (CME), or even the Chicago Board of Trade (CBOT—
stock, BOT) were able to double, triple, quadruple, or even better, their ini-
tial investment dollars.
The Chicago Board of Trade has been around for over 155 years, and I
imagine it will likely continue to be around for another 155 years, with lit-
tle competition in products traded on its exchange and with the increase in
popularity on the electronics metals products, such as gold and silver, plus

c01.qxd 9/24/06 9:48 AM Page 30
30 CANDLESTICK AND PIVOT POINT TRADING TRIGGERS
FIGURE 1.10
RealTick graphics used with permission of Townsend Analytics, LTD.
the huge volume of trades generated in the grain markets. And with the ac-
tion in the U.S. Treasury notes and bonds and Federal (Fed) funds con-
tracts, the CBOT certainly has a positive longer-term outlook for profitable
revenue growth. Figure 1.11 shows that the price exploded to nearly as
high as 134 but has managed to trade back as low as 86 as of this writing.
The BOT stock illustrates that not all IPOs are guaranteed moneymakers; in
fact, depending on your entry, these offerings can be hazardous to your fi-
nancial well-being. The phrase “invest wisely” means “not putting all your
eggs in one basket.” Find out which is the sector leader, and go with that
stock, unless you like the underdog. In this case, the underdog would be
BOT compared to CME.
As you can see in Figure 1.11, BOT stock initially shot up from the 80s
to a little over 130. At the time I was preparing to write this book, it had not
managed to get back over 130 but traded as high as 119. I do feel that once
the Treasury reinstates issuing the 30-year Treasury bond, volume will in-
crease, which will translate into more revenue for the exchange. There-
fore, the profitability should improve through the next few years. If a
drought scare causes the grain complex to go through the roof, you will see

c01.qxd 9/24/06 9:48 AM Page 31
Trading Vehicles, Stock, ETFs, Futures, and Forex 31
FIGURE 1.11
RealTick graphics used with permission of Townsend Analytics, LTD.
this stock price move like a rocket. Many see the Chicago Board of Trade
mimicking the Chicago Mercantile Exchange success story. As Figure 1.12
shows, in just three short years, CME stock went from under 40 to close to
400 by late November 2005.
The biggest surprise of the three had to be the gains by Google, as
Figure 1.13 shows. After the dot-com implosion in 2001, not many were
willing to experiment with any Internet stock. That mentality may be the
one reason why this stock had such a move, from a contrarian point of
view, that is.
LONG-TERM INVESTING OR SHORT-TERM TRADING
We have briefly covered ways to trade stocks and certain methods to trade
leaders of stocks in certain sectors. Investing carries less stress, fewer day-
to-day decisions, and less risk than trading does; and with that come fewer
rewards. Just as we all have different personalities, there are that many
opinions on how to tradethe markets.

c01.qxd 9/24/06 9:48 AM Page 32
32 CANDLESTICK AND PIVOT POINT TRADING TRIGGERS
FIGURE 1.12
RealTick graphics used with permission of Townsend Analytics, LTD.
Some of the keys to successful trading are:
• Diversification. This not only applies to markets, such as a wide as-
sortment of stocks in a portfolio, but also to trading different strategies
and various investment instruments.
• Risk Management. Profitable trading also comes from skills acquired
from practicing discipline, patience, and risk management techniques
that preserve your capital.
• Behavior or Emotions. Successful trading means removing the most
destructive element, negative emotional feelings that plague investors
when trading: fear, greed, and anxiety. Finding the right mixture of in-
vestment products and trading styles can teach you to feel secure when
trading.
The methods we cover in this book can be applied to the topic of se-
lecting stock and spread trading, as we just covered, and to long-term-po-
sition trading, as in the style of trading for which Warren Buffett is famous.

c01.qxd 9/24/06 9:48 AM Page 33
Trading Vehicles, Stock, ETFs, Futures, and Forex 33
FIGURE 1.13
RealTick graphics used with permission of Townsend Analytics, LTD.
EXCHANGE TRADED FUNDS
Exchange traded funds (ETFs) are listed on different exchanges and are
traded on the open market. Choosing this kind of product allows an in-
vestor to select the right sector of performance, rather than pinpointing an
individual stock. The benefits of trading ETFs compared to a mutual fund
are enormous: They allow diversification; they incur more effective trans-
action costs; there is pricing transparency; and they are tax efficient. After
all, it is almost impossible for an individual trader with limited trading re-
sources to effectively track and trade every stock in all sectors of the mar-
ket. ETFs are index-based investment vehicles and are traded as a share of
a single security based on an entire portfolio of stocks. The advantage here
is that the trader can mix the benefits of applying technical analysis and
fundamental analysis to a combination of stock and index trading.
In the most recent development, ETFs have started to include products
related to commodities such as crude oil, gold, and silver; but also they
have expanded into the forex arena by launching a euro currency product.

c01.qxd 9/24/06 9:48 AM Page 34
34 CANDLESTICK AND PIVOT POINT TRADING TRIGGERS
Personalized Mini-Mutual Fund
Instead of agonizing over which stock will outperform in a certain sector,
you can use ETFs as an investment vehicle that has certain stocks in a bas-
ket as one unit, listed as a sector fund. This allows individual investors to
invest in a group of stocks in a sector, rather than relying on a mutual fund
to do it for them. Moreover, many mutual funds charge management fees
and at times do not fully invest all an investor’s cash in the market. Because
ETFs trade like a stock, the price of which fluctuates daily, an ETF does not
have its net asset value (NAV) calculated every day like a mutual fund. By
owning an ETF, you get the diversification of an index fund plus the ability
to sell short, buy on margin, and purchase as little as one share.
Another advantage of an ETF is that the expense ratios for most ETFs
are lower than that of the average mutual fund. When buying and selling
ETFs, you have to pay the same commission to your broker that you’d pay
on any regular order. ETFs allow you to sell without the uptick rule, so you
can short right away, even after the market is in a strong downtrend. You do
not have to wait until the close of the day settlement price as happens in a
mutual fund. Another benefit is the tax consequences because of shielding
from capital gains due to the fact that ETFs do not change holding like a
mutual fund does. So purchasing shares of ETFs is a viable alternative to
investing in mutual funds for individual investors. Keep in mind that many
of the ETFs available today have access to trading options around the ETF.
Therefore, you can develop simple or more complex hedge or spreading
strategies tied around an ETF. There are some negatives, such as the three-
day settlement restriction and a bid/ask spread just like any other market;
but the benefits certainly outweigh the negatives, especially for longer-term
swing and position traders.
The Birth of ETFs
The original ETF was offered to the investing public back in 1993 by the
American Stock Exchange (go to www.amex.com for more listings) and
was known as the SPDRs, which stands for Standard & Poor’s Depositary
Receipts and corresponds with the price movements of the Standard &
Poor’s 500.
The more actively traded and by far more popular ETF came with the
QQQs, which directly correspond with the Nasdaq 100. Then there are the
Diamonds, which move in correlation to the Dow Jones Industrial Average.
ETFs have since expanded, and there is now a new breed of investment ve-
hicles to capture opportunities in sectors known as HOLDRs. These trading
vehicles are based on certain stocks in a certain sector, known as a basket
of diversified stocks in a specific sector.

c01.qxd 9/24/06 9:48 AM Page 35
Trading Vehicles, Stock, ETFs, Futures, and Forex 35
Just as the examples comparing the U.S. Real Estate Trust (IYR) shown
in Figure 1.14 to Toll Brothers, ETFs can offer investors a relationship to
overall sector performance that is better than outright exposure in just one
stock if you are wrong in your investment decision. As we go forward in the
book, I will show you a technical analysis method such as pivot points
using a longer-term time frame and how it can help you determine entry
and exit targets, such as targeting almost the exact high in Toll Brothers, as
well as other stocks.
As you can see in the comparison of the two charts in Figure 1.15, Toll
Brothers took a nasty hit while the Real Estate Investment Trust ETF re-
bounded from the correction.
Looking at a related or similar stock, such as Caterpillar in Figure 1.16,
you would assume that if the construction or housing and real estate mar-
kets could experience a setback due to the 14 interest rate hikes orches-
trated by the Federal Reserve, then a company that manufactures
construction and heavy equipment might suffer a significant correction as
FIGURE 1.14
RealTick graphics used with permission of Townsend Analytics, LTD.

c01.qxd 9/24/06 9:48 AM Page 36
36 CANDLESTICK AND PIVOT POINT TRADING TRIGGERS
FIGURE 1.15
RealTick graphics used with permission of Townsend Analytics, LTD.
well. However, that was not the case, as the chart illustrates. In fact, it is
quite the opposite. So by utilizing an ETF and investing in an overall sector,
an investor has a better chance of gaining a better rate of return. By using
the technical analysis methods that will be covered in this book, an investor
can apply those signals to ETF markets. Keep in mind that options will
eventually be available for most ETFs as well. That will offer investors quite
an edge as far as hedging or protecting against adverse market moves, too.
Hot Sectors, Hot Stocks
In order to take advantage of a hot sector of the market, such as energy,
biotechnology, technology, Internet, brokers, semiconductors, telecom,
and cyclical, to name a few, how would an investor identify the best stocks
in that sector and then narrow it down to one or two stocks and be right?
That is generally the tough part of investing. Trading an ETF or a HOLDR
can help remove that difficulty and may help a longer-term investor achieve
that goal. Moreover, it can also allow an individual to literally trade like a
hedge fund through means of diversified sectors and allow for implement-

c01.qxd 9/24/06 9:48 AM Page 37
Trading Vehicles, Stock, ETFs, Futures, and Forex 37
FIGURE 1.16
RealTick graphics used with permission of Townsend Analytics, LTD.
ing simple to sophisticated trading strategies integrating options as stated
earlier. With market liquidity and market transparency, traders using ETFs
can buy or sell at current market values rather than at assigned market val-
ues based on the close, as is the case when investing in mutual funds. In
fact, some mutual funds may not be fully vested in stocks at a given time.
This means your cash may not be working at 100 percent capacity.
Currency ETFs
This book will also reveal more about the forex markets or foreign cur-
rency trading. And on that subject, there was a new ETF that may appeal to
those who want to participate in currency investing but have neither the
time capacity nor the desire for excessive leverage exposure. Rydex In-
vestments launched the first-ever currency-based exchange-traded prod-
uct back in December 2005.
The Euro Currency Trust (FXE) is an ETF that tracks the price of the
euro, with each share representing about 100 euros plus accrued interest.
Shares of the trust, called “Euro Currency shares,” trade on the New York

c01.qxd 9/24/06 9:48 AM Page 38
38 CANDLESTICK AND PIVOT POINT TRADING TRIGGERS
Stock Exchange (NYSE). The ETF has a 0.4 percent annual fee. Investors
generally pay commissions to buy and sell ETFs, which trade daily on ex-
changes as stocks do. Initially, the trust registered 17 million Euro Cur-
rency shares, for a total offering price of about $2 billion. Shares of the ETF
can be sold short and are eligible for margin, as most ETFs are. Notice the
correlation of price movement in the ETF shown in Figure 1.17 with the
euro FX currency futures contract shown in Figure 1.18.
Granted there is more liquidity in the price of the euro futures contract;
but keep in mind the that the euro ETF was in its third week of trading after
its initial launch date. I suspect that by the time this book is published, the
volume and liquidity will improve dramatically.
Commodity ETFs
Not all ETFs track the price movement of the underlying derivative market
exactly. Take for example the OIH chart shown in Figure 1.19. As you com-
FIGURE 1.17
RealTick graphics used with permission of Townsend Analytics, LTD.

c01.qxd 9/24/06 9:48 AM Page 39
FIGURE 1.18
RealTick graphics used with permission of Townsend Analytics, LTD.
FIGURE 1.19
RealTick graphics used with permission of Townsend Analytics, LTD.
39

c01.qxd 9/24/06 9:48 AM Page 40
40 CANDLESTICK AND PIVOT POINT TRADING TRIGGERS
pare moves in the underlying commodity of crude oil, as shown in Figure
1.20, you will see that at times the correlation is not 100 percent exact. In
fact, at times the ETF has actually been a leading price indicator of the un-
derlying commodity price move! Now there is an ETF that is more closely
correlated to crude oil, such as the United States Oil Fund (USO).
The example in Figure 1.21 is streetTRACKS Gold ETF, traded on the
NYSE. It was launched in late 2004; and as of December 2005, when I
started writing this book, it was trading roughly 2.1 million shares a day. It
has attracted $5.65 billion from investors. Each share of the ETF repre-
sents one-tenth of an ounce of gold, which allows mutual funds or private
investors to invest in gold without actually owning the metal. It mirrors or
tracks the price movement of gold almost exactly, as you can see from Fig-
ure 1.21 when compared to the gold futures chart in Figure 1.22.
The objective of the trust is for the value of its shares to reflect at any
given time the price of gold owned by the trust at that time, minus
the trust’s expenses and liabilities. The trust is not actively managed. It re-
ceives gold deposited with it in exchange for the creation of baskets of
iShares. The trust sells gold as necessary to cover the trust’s liabilities, and
FIGURE 1.20
RealTick graphics used with permission of Townsend Analytics, LTD.

c01.qxd 9/24/06 9:48 AM Page 41
FIGURE 1.21
RealTick graphics used with permission of Townsend Analytics, LTD.
FIGURE 1.22
RealTick graphics used with permission of Townsend Analytics, LTD.
41

c01.qxd 9/24/06 9:48 AM Page 42
42 CANDLESTICK AND PIVOT POINT TRADING TRIGGERS
it delivers gold in exchange for baskets of iShares surrendered to it for re-
demption. The trust is not an investment company registered under the In-
vestment Company Act of 1940 nor a commodity pool for purposes of the
Commodity Exchange Act. This is traded on the American Stock Exchange
(AMEX).
Figure 1.22 shows the CBOT gold minicontract; and as you can see as
you compare the two charts, the price movement in the gold ETF shown in
Figure 1.21 mirrors almost exactly the price movement in the gold futures
contract.
For silver bulls, bears, or spread traders, the newest ETF addition was
the AMEX iShares Silver Trust (SLV). It is a fund based on the daily price of
one ounce of silver as set by the London Bullion Market Association. Those
spread traders buying gold or selling silver now can use ETFs. The key in
showing you the various markets as compared to the ETFs is that you real-
ize that once you identify the opportunity, you then can make a good deci-
sion on which opportunity best presents itself. While futures offer the
leverage, you may want to invest longer term; and an ETF would be right up
your alley without having to pick a gold or silver mining stock. If you are
bullish on precious metals but don’t want to buy the physical metal and if
you have the luxury to trade options, then an ETF would be the right
choice.
It does not go without saying that an outright stock selection can pro-
vide a great return and can at times outperform the sector and even the un-
derlying market. Look at the price move for Newmont Mining in Figure
1.23. This stock took off and never looked back, even when the price of
gold and the gold ETF made a price correction. There are times when that
can happen. Even if you were to purchase long call options, the most prof-
itable rate of return comes from the leverage of an outright long call option
position in a straight up move, such as Newmont experienced. The question
is how many times can that trade and, more important, the timing of such
an event be replicated.
Another advantage of an ETF is the availability and structured use of
iShares. If you are trying to match the most liquid investment vehicle with
a specific sector or group of like stocks, this may be the right investment
choice. IShares are considered to be like an open-ended mutual fund that
reinvests dividends. This investment class is always fully invested in the
market; so when the market moves up and you are long, you would fully
benefit. These index funds also trade just like stocks. Each fund share rep-
resents a proportion of ownership in each stock that makes up the index.
As we have briefly discussed, to make the right choice in an investment and
choose the right stock, you can utilize fundamental analysis, such as earn-
ings per share and market capitalization, to determine what the potential
futures earnings might be. This data can help you determine if the stock is

c01.qxd 9/24/06 9:48 AM Page 43
Trading Vehicles, Stock, ETFs, Futures, and Forex 43
FIGURE 1.23
RealTick graphics used with permission of Townsend Analytics, LTD.
ripe as a buying opportunity or if the price is too high or overvalued and
should be avoided. Considerations that can never be determined are the
hidden demand for a company’s product and the way the company is run,
to see if the profit margins are high or if operating costs and deep discounts
to retailers cut into the company’s bottom line. Therefore, it could be pru-
dent to possibly play the sector through an ETF, which effectively would
eliminate the issue of selecting the wrong stock or the underperformer of
that specific sector.
The Hot Stock
Take, for example, one of the most amazing come-from-behind stories in
2005 and early 2006. Advance Micro Devices (AMD) triumphed, surpassing
Intel’s price level. It would have taken patience and discipline to stick with
this winner; but outperform it did, and what a hot stock it was, as the chart
shows in Figure 1.24!
For a specific ETF or iShare that would list AMD and Intel, you would
look at the iShares Goldman Sachs Semiconductor (IGW) listing. The top 10

c01.qxd 9/24/06 9:48 AM Page 44
44 CANDLESTICK AND PIVOT POINT TRADING TRIGGERS
FIGURE 1.24
RealTick graphics used with permission of Townsend Analytics, LTD.
holdings as of 12/31/2005 were Texas Instruments, Intel, Motorola, Applied
Materials, STMicroelectronics NV, Marvell, Technology Analog Devices,
Broadcom, Advanced Micro Devices, and Maxim Integrated Products.
Intel was a darling among institutional traders and mutual funds, but it
had not performed well, let alone offered enough volatility to day trade or
even swing trade a position. There was just not enough movement in this
stock, as Figure 1.25 shows.
So how was an investor to make money, and how would one possibly
choose to invest in AMD instead of Intel? Actually, once a few simple con-
cepts of identifying market price momentum through candle charts are cov-
ered in the next few chapters, you will see how and why to stick around
when a market goes into a trending phase. Also, once you learn these tech-
niques, it will be pretty easy to help select the right stock. Another simple
investment decision would be to buy the iShares Goldman Sachs Semicon-
ductor ETF! As you can see from Figure 1.26, the semiconductor ETF
moved up. It would have been a far better trade simply being outright long
AMD from under 15 in March 2005, but the torture of watching Intel go
nowhere would have been a reason to buy the semiconductor ETF and

c01.qxd 9/24/06 9:48 AM Page 45
FIGURE 1.25
RealTick graphics used with permission of Townsend Analytics, LTD.
FIGURE 1.26
RealTick graphics used with permission of Townsend Analytics, LTD.
45

c01.qxd 9/24/06 9:48 AM Page 46
46 CANDLESTICK AND PIVOT POINT TRADING TRIGGERS
participate in a profit. The key in using these vehicles is for those who like a
specific sector and do not have unlimited resources to buy a wide spectrum
of stocks. It is also appealing to those who want longer-term trades and who
hold a regular day job and cannot day trade for a living, at least not yet.
Once again, the difficulty of choosing the right stock in a competitive
industry in a specific sector can be overcome; and it may be more profitable
by considering trading an ETF. The previous comparisons of Best Buy and
Circuit City, Dell and Apple, and AMD and Intel all are excellent examples
of how an investor may have a difficult time anticipating which stock out-
performs another in a specific sector. Therefore, for a longer-term stock
trader, ETF investment vehicles could be a solution, helping to boost the
bottom line, and can be added to his or her investment portfolio.
ETFs and some HOLDRs have the greater advantage of trading put and
call options within a prescribed period of time. An investor can even buy
calls such as on the pharmaceutical HOLDRs. Here is a tactic that I have
used before with some success, especially if there are buy signals on sev-
eral individual stocks within a sector. Go ahead and purchase, with a rea-
sonable time until expiration, an in-the-money or close-to-the-money call
option on the HOLDR itself. The pharmaceutical HOLDRs can be traded
based on signals from Abbott, Merck, and Pfizer.
So you can utilize ETFs and their respected relatives and apply several
strategies; also you can use intermarket relationships to determine buy or
sell signals and devise a trading strategy dependent on those signals. Once
you have a good feel for a stock that correlates or links best with an
ETF, then you can use a spread or “pairs” trading strategy or even a hedge
strategy using options. Deciding what is best for your risk capital making,
using an ETF, you no longer need to make a precise pick for a stock in a
specific sector.
In conclusion, trading opportunities exist in these investment vehicles
for all investors; and best of all, they respond quite well using technical
analysis to project support and resistance levels as derived from pivot point
analysis and the momentum techniques that certain candle patterns indi-
cate, which are the specific techniques disclosed in this book. This knowl-
edge should give you, the individual investor, quite an edge in the market!
FUTURES MARKETS: LEVERAGE SYSTEM
We will go over several techniques for helping you identify trading oppor-
tunities in the futures markets. So far we have gone over using exchange
traded funds versus stocks; pairs trading in related stocks; and using
commodities for identifying opportunities in ETFs, such as the oil service

c01.qxd 9/24/06 9:48 AM Page 47
Trading Vehicles, Stock, ETFs, Futures, and Forex 47
HOLDRs (OIH) or the U.S. Oil Fund (USO) versus crude oil futures. The
Euro Currency Trust (FXE) is a more direct move for stock traders playing
the euro currency futures versus the U.S. dollar. Then there is the street-
TRACKS Gold ETF (GLD) compared to the CBOT electronic gold futures
contract, or now a trader can use the iShares Silver Trust to trade against
the physical silver market.
Stock traders can now apply and take advantage of so many commod-
ity markets; but as I mentioned, the futures market is a great investment ve-
hicle to many savvy and financially well-funded traders. Even smaller-sized
traders can benefit from trading the futures market through the responsi-
ble use of the margin system, otherwise referred to as a “good faith de-
posit.” What is a futures contract? It is a legally binding agreement to buy
and sell a commodity or financial instrument sometime in the future at a
price agreed upon at the time a transaction was made. Contracts are stan-
dardized according to delivery points of interest, quality, quantity, and time
of accepting or making a delivery. It is estimated that less than 3 percent of
all transactions actually result in a delivery. In the case of stock index trad-
ing, there is a cash settlement over the value of the contract.
Stock Index Futures
For day or swing traders following the stock market, the futures market
offers an advantage over stocks from tax liability perspective. Always
check with your accountant; but, generally speaking, profits generated in
a futures account are taxed at a rate significantly lower than that for a
stock account.
One confusing aspect and perhaps a drawback for many traders
switching from equities or even forex to trading futures is that there are so
many products with various contract sizes. There is no consistency or
constant in tick value fluctuations or dollar value in the price changes. For
example, the CBOT mini-Dow contract is $5 times the overall Index. When
the Dow was at 10,500, the overall value was 52,500. The margin was set
at $2,600, or just under 5 percent. E-mini–S&Ps are 12.50 per tick (four
ticks per point). If the point value is $50, the overall value of the contract
if the S&P is at 1,200.00 is $60,000. In the currency markets, the euro is
12.50 per tick; the Canadian dollar is 10 per tick; the British pound is 6.25
per point but trades in a minimum two-tick fluctuation. (In my first book
[A Complete Guide to Trading Tactics, Wiley, 2004], I listed all the com-
modities and the contract sizes on pages 8 and 9; please refer to that for a
comparison. Or you can ask your futures broker to provide the listing of
contract specifications.)
The exchanges where the individual futures products are traded set
the margin requirements. Generally speaking, an initial margin requirement

c01.qxd 9/24/06 9:48 AM Page 48
48 CANDLESTICK AND PIVOT POINT TRADING TRIGGERS
on a futures product runs anywhere from 2 percent up to 10 percent of a
contract’s overall value. So now a trader needs to know which exchange
the product is traded on, how much risk capital is needed to invest per con-
tract, and how much each point value is. Let’s look at the New York Mer-
cantile Exchange’s crude oil contract: The contract size is 1,000 gallons;
every tick or point fluctuation equals $10. A $1 move per contract is a $1,000
price move. When prices were at $65 per barrel, the contract value was
$65,000. The margin requirement was, at one point, nearly $9,000 per con-
tract, almost 14 percent of the overall market value. The extremely high
margin requirement reflected the extreme level of volatility and the inher-
ent risk associated with that increased volatility.
The futures markets also have a value for stock traders to make deci-
sions on asset allocations to their stock portfolios. In the agriculture sector,
for example, you can study the price direction of soybeans, use traditional
technical analysis tactics to determine the strength of a trend, and see if
corresponding stocks linked to that market are worth switching or allocat-
ing funds toward. In Figure 1.27, we see soybeans making a seasonal har-
vest bottom at the end of November.
Another advantage futures have is that you can trade signals to diver-
sify in other investments. Anticipating that the market may establish a sea-
sonal bottom, you may want to explore stocks directly linked to the
agriculture industry, instead of being exposed to potential risks due to what
might appear to be an overleveraged investment vehicle, such as a futures
contract. After all, every penny in soybean futures was $50 at the time that
I was preparing this book, and the minimum margin requirement was
$1,148. That means that on a small 20 cent move, you could lose nearly 95
percent of the initial investment per contract.
There are other considerations you could use, such as an options strat-
egy, to effectively reduce risk exposure, such as going long a futures con-
tract and buying a put option for protection; but in this strategy, you need
to time the right option expiration. An alternative strategy would be going
long a related market, such as stock in Monsanto shown in Figure 1.28.
Notice that this stock exploded in early November. The best part here
is that there were seasonal factors to support a buy signal; and the techni-
cal picture shows what I call a “high close doji trigger,” which we will dis-
close in this book. In fact, this is a great example to demonstrate why using
a like or related market analysis approach can help you achieve better re-
sults in your trading. Cycle and seasonal studies can really help you in se-
lecting stocks. The futures markets can certainly aid in that analytical
process. Not only do commodities move in cycles, but the economy and
businesses do as well.
There is one man who sticks out above the rest as the premier expert
in the field of intermarket relationships—John J. Murphy. He has written

c01.qxd 9/24/06 9:48 AM Page 49
FIGURE 1.27
RealTick graphics used with permission of Townsend Analytics, LTD.
FIGURE 1.28
RealTick graphics used with permission of Townsend Analytics, LTD.
49

c01.qxd 9/24/06 9:48 AM Page 50
50 CANDLESTICK AND PIVOT POINT TRADING TRIGGERS
FIGURE 1.29
RealTick graphics used with permission of Townsend Analytics, LTD.
many books on the subject; the latest, titled Intermarket Analysis: Profit-
ing from Global Market Relationships, will really help you in your educa-
tional journey.
Let’s look at two more agriculture related stocks: One in Figure 1.29 is
Archer Daniels Midland, which as you can see did rise but not significantly;
however, it did rise in tandem with the soybean market. The other stock is
Bunge Limited, shown in Figure 1.30, which mirrored the chart pattern in
Figure 1.29 and moved higher at almost exactly the same time that the bot-
tom in the soybean futures was formed.
Tandem Trading Techniques
Intermarket relationships have existed for years. It is very easy to track and
look for trade setups in futures from a historical perspective, but timing a
trade can be difficult due to the magnitude of the leverage as previously
discussed. Don’t get me wrong; futures are a very viable investment vehi-
cle. I have made a very lucrative living trading commodities for the past 26
years. I just want you to learn that you can use futures to help make diver-

c01.qxd 9/24/06 9:48 AM Page 51
Trading Vehicles, Stock, ETFs, Futures, and Forex 51
FIGURE 1.30
RealTick graphics used with permission of Townsend Analytics, LTD.
sified investment decisions on a broader scale. The key to making money in
the markets is managing risk . . . end of story. Knowing the right strategy
and having exposure to other markets and strategies can help you achieve
your financial goals. Using similar or like markets or those that trade in tan-
dem, especially markets that have strong relationships, traders can develop
trading techniques or strategies by using signals based on one market and
applying them to another, such as commodities and stocks or an ETF.
Keep in mind that not all relationships work all the time. Look at past mar-
ket relationships, such as the dollar and gold: Generally when the dollar
goes up, gold goes down; but that certainly was not the case in 2005. How
about when the Fed raises interest rates? Generally, long-term bond yields
rise as well; but that did not occur in 2005 either. In fact, commodities and
bond yields usually trend together; and that did not occur in 2005. Federal
Reserve chairman Alan Greenspan called the decline in long-term yields a
“conundrum.”
As we saw commodity prices rise, we saw the Federal Reserve raise
rates at a “moderate” pace, acting at 16 consecutive meetings to adjust the
Fed funds rate by 0.25 percent each time. This was in response to the per-

c01.qxd 9/24/06 9:48 AM Page 52
52 CANDLESTICK AND PIVOT POINT TRADING TRIGGERS
ception that inflation was rearing its ugly head. (As of the printing of this
book, the Fed was still in rate-hiking mode!) Due to higher energy costs and
as reflected in the Producer and Consumer Price Indexes, we had seen a
pickup in inflation; and historically, many commodity prices rise besides
gold and silver, such as sugar, coffee, and cotton.
The Reuters/Jefferies CRB (Commodity Research Bureau) Index, orig-
inally developed in 1957, is one of the most often cited indicators of overall
commodity prices, offering investors a broad and reliable benchmark for
the performance of the commodity sector. It is traded on the New York
Board of Trade and started trading back in 1986. The “RJ/CRB” Index was
revised in 2005 to reflect 19 commodity futures prices: aluminum, cocoa,
coffee, copper, corn, cotton, crude oil, gold, heating oil, live cattle, lean
hogs, natural gas, nickel, orange juice, silver, soybeans, sugar, unleaded
gasoline, and wheat.
If you examine the chart of the RJ/CRB Index shown in Figure 1.31, the
stratospheric rise is obvious and would indicate that inflation was or will be
FIGURE 1.31
Used with permission of esignal.com.

c01.qxd 9/24/06 9:48 AM Page 53
Trading Vehicles, Stock, ETFs, Futures, and Forex 53
trickling down to consumers. Again, price increases in commodities his-
torically signal a rise in inflationary pressures.
Investors and traders can use stocks or ETFs to capitalize on com-
modity plays; but at times, it pays to diversify and have a commodity ac-
count. Not all stocks offer participation in all commodity moves, so it is
wise to explore using commodity markets as an investment.
A Case in Point
A fundamental event, besides an increase in demand, that helped create a
shortage of supplies in energy and other commodities in 2005 was the
weather. Hurricanes Katrina, Rita, and Wilma gave a lift to sugar and orange
juice futures while harming certified coffee facilities in New Orleans and, to
a lesser extent, Miami. These weather-related events were pure commodity
market plays. Let me walk you through one of these 2005 events: The day
before Hurricane Wilma passed through Florida, my wife and I had watched
the Weather Channel intensely and decided to stick around because all the
news reported that the hurricane would be downgraded to a tropical de-
pression by the time it crossed over Naples and exited on the other side of
Florida, in Palm Beach. The day before, we had played golf; and it was a
splendid day: 83 degrees or so, a light breeze, and not a cloud in the sky. We
were planning to leave for Chicago the following Sunday, and we could
have easily changed our tickets and left early. Well, at 6 A.M. on October 24,
we woke up and discovered that Wilma had gained strength and merged
with another storm, named Alpha; and Wilma had turned into a low-grade
Category 3 hurricane! All I could think of at the moment my wife turned the
TV on was, “I better make some coffee because we are going to lose
power.” By the time the coffee had finished brewing, click, all the lights
went out.
However, we were prepared: The cars had gas, the shutters were up,
and we had a generator; so life was not so bad for that week. The morning
of the hurricane, CNBC had called to see if I was in Florida and asked me
what I thought would happen to the orange juice crop. I did a live inter-
view via my cell phone, reporting on the weather conditions and what
might happen to the orange crop. I stated that “we could see at least a 10
percent price gain from the 1.11 level to possibly as high as 1.25, as the
storm would pass through sections of Indian River County.” It was also
that storm that devastated the soon-to-be-harvested sugar cane crop. As it
turns out, that was a solid prediction and exactly what played out in the
markets. If you had a commodity account, you may have taken up that op-
portunity in orange juice. In fact, orange juice eventually moved as high as
164 by May 11, 2006.

c01.qxd 9/24/06 9:48 AM Page 54
54 CANDLESTICK AND PIVOT POINT TRADING TRIGGERS
FUNDAMENTAL EVENTS INFLUENCE
PRICE DIRECTION
There is an old saying, “Think like a fundamentalist, but trade like a tech-
nician”—a great line that applies when trading commodities or any market
for that matter. Here is how that line applies to the hurricane situation. The
orange juice crop was slightly damaged; there was a reduction in supplies
in the southern growing region in Florida. Prior to the hurricane, prices
moved higher in anticipation of a loss of inventory; what was unknown was
how much higher. The market traded higher after what appeared to be a
significant damaging hurricane.
Fundamentally, the market was vulnerable for any further price
shocks. Then, as we approached the traditional seasonal frost scare period
in mid-January through February, the market would be more vulnerable to
increased volatility. In fact, that was what occurred in 2006, as Figure 1.32
FIGURE 1.32
Used with permission of www.GenesisFT.com.

c01.qxd 9/24/06 9:48 AM Page 55
Trading Vehicles, Stock, ETFs, Futures, and Forex 55
shows. The fundamental supply/demand report outlook, as shown in the
U.S. Department of Agriculture’s (USDA’s) monthly crop report, did not re-
veal a major supply/demand imbalance to warrant higher prices. But a frost
scare would! The anticipation that crops would suffer from frost damage
propped prices sharply higher. The point is that you need to be aware of
what fundamental factors influence a market. Markets do not always move
when they should on facts presented, but there are circumstances that can
and do make markets move! A hurricane in South Florida before harvest
time is one such situation.
NOT ALL NEWS AFFECTS MARKETS EQUALLY
Hurricane-related damage in 2005 played a major role in the reduction of
supplies to the sugar market more so than it did in orange juice. Also, the
fundamental backdrop of the sugar market was more significant than the
orange juice market because it has a dual role: Sugar is a food product, and
it is used as a biofuel to make methanol. It set record price gains in 2005, es-
pecially as energy prices surged. Raw sugar prices more than doubled in
2005, climbing and making new 24-year highs. Brazil, the world’s largest
producer, uses most of its crop to make fuel because of the high cost of
gasoline. With that information, we would expect that after Hurricanes Ka-
trina and Rita impacting the Louisiana crops and then Hurricane Wilma
making a direct hit on Florida’s crop, prices would take off like a rocket!
But don’t forget that sugar is produced all over the world and that there are
sugar beets and sugar cane. It is almost impossible to measure inventories
from all growing regions of the world, and the market knew that after Hur-
ricane Wilma hit. The fundamental event that impacted the orange juice
market had a different effect there than it did on the sugar market.
As you examine Figure 1.33, notice that prices actually decline after
Hurricane Wilma. It took almost one month for the market to realize that
there was a significant loss in Florida’s crop, and speculative money pored
into the market to take advantage of higher prices. A Trend Traders tech-
nical price break signals to get long this market, and substantial profits were
made. It may appear that the fundamental and technical outlooks were not
in sync; and by late January/early February of 2006, traders started to sense
that the market was getting slightly ahead of itself, or overbought. Traders
who were long started to liquidate some positions in preparation for the
USDA’s monthly crop report. If you look closely at Figure 1.33, the very
high of the market was formed by a candle pattern named a shooting star.
(Chapter 7 focuses on how to spot reversals like this one.) The market did

c01.qxd 9/24/06 9:48 AM Page 56
56 CANDLESTICK AND PIVOT POINT TRADING TRIGGERS
FIGURE 1.33
Used with permission of www.GenesisFT.com.
not behave according to what the fundamentals dictated. Prices rallied in a
delayed effect and then continued higher on speculative buying interest.
What I want to illustrate next is how markets do notact according to
the following:
• What fundamentals dictate.
• Common sense.
• Rational emotional intelligence.
The high was made in the sugar market on February 3 at 19.65, one
week earlier than the USDA crop report. Table 1.1 shows the actual gov-
ernment report, the boldface type indicating that total sugar supplies in-
creased from 11,870 to 12,026! But best of all, total usage declined from
10,523 to 10,365! Ending stocks show there are more surplus inventories.
Since that report, prices have declined significantly.
Therefore, remember: Fundamentals do not always jibe with what
the charts show. Think like a fundamentalist but trade technically.

c01.qxd 9/24/06 9:48 AM Page 57
Trading Vehicles, Stock, ETFs, Futures, and Forex 57
TABLE 1.1
U.S. Sugar Supply and Demand Report 2-9-2006 (1,000 short tons, raw value)
2004/2005 2004/2005 205/2006 2005/2006
Item Previous Feb 9 Previous Feb 9
Beginning stocks 1,897 1,897 1,347 1,347
Production 2/ 7,877 7,877 7,593 7,593
Beet sugar 4,611 4,611 4,435 4,458
Cane sugar 3,266 3,266 3,158 3,131
Florida 1,693 1,693 1,455 1,428
Hawaii 258 258 260 260
Louisiana 1,157 1,157 1,263 1,263
Texas 158 158 180 180
Imports 2,096 2,096 2,770 3,090
Total Supply 11,870 11,870 11,710 12,026
Exports 259 259 175 175
Domestic 10,215 10,215 10,215 10,190
Food 10,046 10,046 10,050 10,050
Other 169 169 165 140
Miscellaneous 49 49 0 0
Total Use 10,523 10,523 10,390 10,365
Ending Stocks 1,347 1,347 1,320 1,661
Stocks/Use ratio 12.8 12.8 12.7 16.0
FOLLOW THE MONEY FLOW
Fundamental events are not the only factors that drive prices. We see evi-
dence of increased participation from speculators as reflected by the in-
crease in volume and open interest levels. Most commodity markets,
besides orange juice and sugar, showed massive money inflows by hedge
funds, pension funds, and individual investors in 2005 as commodities
prices rose. The Reuters/Jeffries CRB Index, as shown back in Figure 1.31,
is a great illustration of that fact. This trend may continue in 2006 and pos-
sibly beyond into 2008. The hurricanes in 2005 affected not only the agri-
cultural markets described here but also the energy markets, as previously
mentioned. In 2005, natural gas prices skyrocketed, and unleaded gasoline
prices exploded. Many stock analysts may not have been trading com-
modities directly, but they certainly were watching their price movements
and using that data to track their portfolios.
My point is that we have entered a time period in which our civilization

c01.qxd 9/24/06 9:48 AM Page 58
58 CANDLESTICK AND PIVOT POINT TRADING TRIGGERS
and culture are entwined in a very complex financial relationship in which
commodity markets play a serious role. Think about this: Ten years ago, we
did not trade freely or openly as we do now with China; in fact, China now
has its own exchange, the Zhengzhou Commodity Exchange. Then there
are India and other parts of Asia; as their commerce and economic growth
develop, so will the need for trading.
More and more investors are participating in the markets around the
globe, even in Latin America. Markets have become more confusing to
trade, and therefore we need to look for opportunities and to keep our de-
fense up to be more risk averse. Using spread trading in the futures markets
can help you achieve those goals; the opportunities are endless. Keep in
mind the important principles of trading that depend on these elements:
• Prices reflect forces influenced by supply and demand factors.
• Prices represent the collective action of buyers and sellers who are
dictating what the current price of a given product is perceived to be at
a given time.
Stocks Influenced by Commodities
Now that commodities are moving and have attracted the attention of so-
phisticated hedge fund and commodity trading advisors, money has been
flowing back to this investment industry. Investors use fundamental infor-
mation such as weather conditions and apply technical analysis techniques
to time entries and exits. Corporations, banks, and institutions are using
the markets to hedge against losses incurred in the cash markets, for ex-
ample, the airline industry, where some companies were buying energy fu-
tures contracts to lock in prices prior to the big price surge. Smart move!
Higher prices in commodities such as crude oil certainly have an influence
on the airline stocks. Therefore, tracking commodity prices is important for
stock traders.
We will go over specific trading strategies as well as some back-testing
results that will substantiate a pretty good method for trading the futures
markets. This introduction was designed to show you that there is more to
commodity trading than meets the eye and to show you not only how you
can utilize price moves in the futures to profit from a futures contract but
also how you can apply that knowledge in other areas of investing. In fact,
stock traders can greatly benefit from information unique to the commod-
ity markets. One such bit of information is released by the Commodity Fu-
tures Trading Commission (CFTC) and is known as the Commitment of
Traders (COT) Report. It is referred to as legal “insider trading” informa-
tion, which is covered in the next few pages; so read on!

c01.qxd 9/24/06 9:48 AM Page 59
Trading Vehicles, Stock, ETFs, Futures, and Forex 59
FOREX, THE CURRENCY CASH MACHINE
Foreign exchange currency trading, otherwise known as the forex market,
offers an investment asset class that is completely different from stocks of
futures and offers leverage and virtually unrestricted access 24 hours a day.
Forex trades virtually around the clock, from when the Asian market opens
on Sunday night until the U.S. markets close on Friday afternoon. One of
the attractions from an individual trader’s perspective is that there is this
constant access to make a trade.
Forex is the simultaneous buying of one currency and selling of another.
In other words, currencies are always traded in pairs; in every transaction,
a trader is long one currency and short the other. A position is expressed
in terms of the first currency in the pair.For example, if you have purchased
euro and sold U.S. dollars, it would be stated as a euro/dollar pair.
The foreign exchange market (forex, or FX) is the largest and most liq-
uid financial market in the world, with a volume of over $1.5 trillion daily—
more than three times the aggregate amount of the U.S. Equity and
Treasury markets combined. This means that a trader can enter or exit the
market at will in almost any market condition with minimal execution risk.
The forex market is so vast and has so many participants that no single en-
tity, not even a central bank, can control the market price for an extended
period of time. Unlike other financial markets, the forex market has no
physical location, no central exchange. It operates through an electronic
network of banks, corporations, and individuals trading one currency for
another. The lack of a physical exchange enables the forex market to oper-
ate on a 24-hour basis, spanning from one zone to another, across the major
financial centers.
Margin and Leverage
The forex market allows traders to control massive amounts of leverage
with minimal margin requirements; some firms offer as much as 100-to-1
leverage. For example, traders can control a $100,000 position with $1,000,
or 1 percent. Obviously, leverage can be a powerful tool for currency
traders. While it does contribute to the risk of a given position, leverage is
necessary in the forex market because the average daily move of a major
currency is about 1 percent, while a stock typically sees much more sub-
stantial moves.
Leverage can be seen as a free short-term credit allowance, just as it is
in the futures markets, allowing traders to purchase an amount of currency
exceeding that of their account balance. As a result, traders are exposed to
an increased level of both risk and opportunity. Due to the nature of the

c01.qxd 9/24/06 9:48 AM Page 60
60 CANDLESTICK AND PIVOT POINT TRADING TRIGGERS
leverage in the forex markets, positions are normally short-lived. For this
reason, entry and exit points are crucial for success and must be based on
various technical analysis tools. While fundamental analysis focuses on
what shouldhappen, technical analysis is based on what hasor is happen-
ingat the current time.
Identifying the overall trend, whether it is short-term or long-term, is
the most fundamental element of trading with technical analysis. A weekly
or monthly chart should be used to identify a longer-term trend, while a
daily or intraday chart must be used for examining the shorter-term trend.
After determining the direction of the market, it is important to identify the
time horizon of potential trades and to apply those strategies to the appro-
priate trend. Therefore, the techniques covered in this book are highly ef-
fective in trading the forex markets.
Technical analysis is the study of historical prices in an attempt to
predict future price movements. There are two basic components on which
technical analysis is based: prices and volume. By having the proper un-
derstanding of how these two components exploit the impact of supply
and demand in the marketplace, with a stronger understanding of how in-
dicators work, especially when combining candle charts and pivot analysis,
you will soon discover a powerful trading method to incorporate in the
forex market.
Long or Short
One of the advantages that the forex market has over equity markets is that
there is no uptick rule, as exists in the stock market, if one wants to take ad-
vantage of a price decline. Short selling in forex is similar to that in the fu-
tures market. By definition, when a trader goes short, he is selling a
currency with the expectation that the price will drop, allowing for a prof-
itable offset. If the market moves against the trader’s position, he will be
forced to buy back the contract at a higher price. The result is a loss on the
trade. There is no limit to how high a currency can go, giving short sellers
an unlimited loss scenario. Theoretically, a short seller is exposed to more
risk than a trader with a long position; however, through the use of stop-
loss orders, traders can mitigate their risk regardless of long or short posi-
tions. It is imperative that traders are well-disciplined and execute
previously planned trades, as opposed to spontaneous trading based on a
“feeling that the price will decline.”
Benefits for Selling Short
There are obvious benefits to short selling. This aspect of the forex market
allows traders to profit from declining markets. The ease of selling con-

c01.qxd 9/24/06 9:48 AM Page 61
Trading Vehicles, Stock, ETFs, Futures, and Forex 61
tracts before buying them first is in contrast to typical stock trading. Mar-
ket prices have a tendency to drop faster than they rise, giving short sellers
an opportunity to capitalize on this phenomenon. Similarly, prices will
often rally gradually with increasing volume. As prices trend toward a peak,
trading volume will typically taper off. This is a signal that many short sell-
ers look for to initiate a trade. When a reversal does occur, there will typi-
cally be more momentum than there was with the corresponding up move.
Volume will increase throughout the sell-off until the prices reach a point at
which sellers begin to back off.
Famous Short Plays
There have been quite a few milestone memories from famous currency
trades, with both short positions and long. For example, famed financier
George Soros “broke” the Bank of England by winning an estimated $10 bil-
lion bet that the British pound would lose value! How about Daimler
Chrysler, the parent company of Chrysler and Mercedes Benz—reportedly
it made more money in the forex markets than it did selling cars! On the
negative side, in early 2005, Warren Buffett announced the U.S. dollar was
in trouble and stated he was heavily short the U.S. currency. That did not
turn out well for him, as the dollar rallied for the most part during all of
2005. What turned the market around? There were many issues—mainly
political, geopolitical, and economic developments—that influenced the
dollar’s value. For starters, many U.S.–based multi-conflomerate corpora-
tions were prompted to bring money back into the United States due to the
Homeland Investment Act (HIA). The HIA is part of 2004 American Jobs
Creation Act and was intended to encourage U.S.–based companies to
bring money back home.
The window of opportunity afforded by the HIA prompted companies
to increase the pace at which funds are repatriated to the United States.
Since companies had only until the end of 2005, many analysts suspected
that companies would rush to repatriate foreign profits by year’s end and
that there would be a high dollar demand to convert foreign currencies.
Don’t forget, during the middle of 2005, there were riots in France. That
contributed to poor market sentiment toward the euro zone, thus giving
ground for a flight to safety, and helped foreign investors switch to buying
U.S. dollars. The tone was essentially dollar-positive and euro-negative,
which is indicative of politics having a negative effect on the euro. Mean-
while, the broader market was also most likely influenced by the high-pro-
file move by Berkshire Hathaway, Inc.’s, Warren Buffett to cut back
speculative positions against the U.S. dollar after losing big on it due to sur-
prising dollar strength.
Mr. Buffett had bet that the dollar would continue losing ground, as it

c01.qxd 9/24/06 9:48 AM Page 62
62 CANDLESTICK AND PIVOT POINT TRADING TRIGGERS
did in 2004, as he felt the massive U.S. current-account deficit would be dol-
lar negative. But instead, monetary policy dictated otherwise as the Federal
Reserve continued to raise interest rates. That was helping to drive demand
as the interest rate differentials widened. In its third-quarter report in 2005,
Berkshire Hathaway said it had cut its foreign-currency exposure to $16.5
billion, down from $21.5 billion in June 2005.
As you can see from the dollar Index weekly chart in Figure 1.34, on a
year-to-year basis, the dollar did make an outstanding run. However, keep
in mind that the dollar was at a high of 120.80 back in 2002; so depending on
where Buffett was shorting the dollar, he could still be in a lucrative posi-
tion. The focus of this story is how shifts in monetary and fiscal policies can
and do dictate price swings in the market, as happened in 2005.
Forex trading is considered the juggernaut in the investment world,
with more than 3.5 trillion in currency trading taking place per day, ac-
cording to the Bank for International Settlements. There is more daily vol-
ume in the forex market than in all of the U.S. stock markets combined.
There is no doubt that that is one reason why foreign currency has become
so popular. Other reasons why forex attracts so many individual investors
FIGURE 1.34
Used with permission of esignal.com.

c01.qxd 9/24/06 9:48 AM Page 63
Trading Vehicles, Stock, ETFs, Futures, and Forex 63
are that the market has liquidity and favorable trading applications, such as
the ability to go long or short a position, and that it trends and trades well,
based off technical analysis studies.
In the past, currency trading was accessible for speculators through the
futures industry when the central marketplace in the banking arena was for
the privileged few. This has all changed now, and the competition is fierce.
The industry has expanded from what was an exclusive club of proprietary
traders and banks to a location where any and all individual traders who
want to participate have access in this 24-hour market from their home or
office computers or laptops.
The forex markets offer traders free commissions, no exchange fees,
on-line access, and plenty of liquidity. Unlike the futures products, the mar-
kets are standardized contract values, meaning a full-size position is
100,000 value across the board. The one main element that attracted in-
vestors is the commission-free trading. Plus, most forex firms require less
capital to initiate a start-up account than a futures account does. In fact, in-
vestors can open accounts on their debit and/or credit cards, and the prac-
tice of accepting payments online through PayPal exists.
Some firms offer smaller-size flexi accounts, allowing traders to start
applying their skills at technical analysis with as little as $500 and trading
ultraminiaccounts with leverage. This feature of what is known as miniac-
counts allows individual investors to adjust their positions by not having
too big a contract value per position; they can add or scale into greater or
lesser positions to adjust the level of leverage according to their account
size. Smaller-size investors are not excluded from trading; they can partic-
ipate with minicontracts. What is great about this feature is that a new
trader or an experienced trader who is testing a new system can trade the
market with real money, rather than simply paper trading, and benefit from
the actual experience of working out execution issues and, more important,
of seeing how they handle the mental or emotional side of trading. Having
real money on the line certainly helps teach people to learn about their
emotional makeup. This is one great way to overcome the fear-and-greed
syndrome that many traders seem to battle. Another excellent quality that
forex miniaccounts have is that traders with low-equity accounts can afford
to trade multiple positions without being exposed to excessive risks like
full-sized positions for scaling out of positions in order to let a portion of
the position ride a profitable position, while capturing profits on a partial
exit. We will go over more on that style of trading later.
What Benefits Do Forex Firms Offer?
Besides offering leverage accounts, other benefits that most forex compa-
nies offer are free real-time news, charts, and quotes with state-of-the-art

c01.qxd 9/24/06 9:48 AM Page 64
64 CANDLESTICK AND PIVOT POINT TRADING TRIGGERS
order-entry platforms; and some even have automated order-entry features
such as one cancels the other and trailing stops. All of these tools and
order-entry platforms come at no additional charge to the trader.
These features may sound too good to be true. With all the benefits
that the forex market offers, most newcomers want to know what the
catch is. There are some slight cost factors that relate to execution;
you pay a premium or a higher spread to buy and a higher spread to
sell. Also, most forex companies take the other side of your trade; you
do not have direct access to the interbank market, as it is called. Since
the forex market is decentralized, it is possible that five different compa-
nies are showing five different prices all at the same time within a few
points (PIPs—percentage in points). Since most forex traders are short-
term in nature, meaning they are quick in-and-out players, day trading
in the forex markets is beneficial for these traders due to the fact that
there are no commissions; but the PIP spreads can and do add up. There
lies the catch.
Buy and Sell the Spread
Forex prices, or quotes, include a “bid” and an “ask” similar to other finan-
cial products. The bidis the price at which a dealer is willing to buy and a
trader can sell a currency; and the askis the price at which a dealer is will-
ing to sell and a trader can buy a currency. In forex trading, unlike futures
or equities, you have to pay a percentage in price (PIP) spread on entering
a trade. The PIP spreadis the point difference between the bid and the ask-
ing price of the spot currency price. This can vary between two and four
PIPs on a euro versus U.S. dollar spread. The spread varies on other cur-
rency pairs and is usually wider on more exotic cross markets, such as the
Canadian dollar versus the Swiss franc.
If you want to hold a position for several days, a rollover process is
necessary. In the spot forex market, all trades must be settled within two
business days at the close of business at 5 P.M. (EST). The only fee in-
volved here is the interest payment on the position of currency held. At
times, depending on the position, a trader can receive an interest payment
as well. This is where the term tomorrow/next (Tom/Next) applies. It
refers to thesimultaneous buying and selling of a currency for delivery the
following day.
As with futures, forex markets are now regulated to an extent and
come under the scrutiny of the self-imposed regulators, such as the Na-
tional Futures Association after the CFTC Modernization Act passed in
2002; but since there is no centralized marketplace, many forex dealers can
and do make their own markets, as discussed earlier.

c01.qxd 9/24/06 9:48 AM Page 65
Trading Vehicles, Stock, ETFs, Futures, and Forex 65
Why Trade Spot Forex Markets?
Of all financial instruments traded, forex is believed by many professional
traders and analysts to be one of the best-suited markets to trade based off
technical analysis methods, for a number of reasons. First is its sheer size
in trading volume: According to the Bank for International Settlements, av-
erage daily turnover in traditional foreign exchange markets amounted to
$1.9 trillion in the cash exchange market and another $1.2 trillion per day in
the over-the-counter (OTC) foreign exchange and interest rate derivatives
market as of April 2005. Second, the rate of growth and the number of mar-
ket participants in forex trading have grown some 2,000 percent over the
past three decades, rising from barely $1 billion per day in 1974 to an esti-
mated $2 trillion by 2005. Third, since the market does not have an official
closing time, there is never a backlog or “pool” of client orders parked
overnight that may cause a severe reaction to news stories hitting the mar-
ket at the U.S. Bank opening. This generally reduces the chance for price
gaps. Currencies tend to experience longer-lasting trending market condi-
tions than other markets. These trends can last for months or even years, as
most central banks do not switch interest rate policies every other day.
This makes them ideal markets for trend trading and even breakout sys-
tems traders. This might explain why chart pattern analysis works so well
in forex trading. With such widespread groups playing the game around the
world, crowd behavior plays a large part in currency moves; and it is this
crowd behavior that is the foundation for the myriad of technical analysis
tools and techniques.
Due in part to its size, forex is less volatile than other markets. Lower
volatility equals lower risk. For example, the S&P 500 Index trading range
is between 4 percent and 5 percent daily, while the daily volatility range in
the euro is around 1 percent.
Trading veterans know that markets are interdependent, with some
markets more heavily influenced by certain markets than others. We cov-
ered some of these relationships looking at futures and certain stocks and
how changes in interest rates can move equity markets as well as the cur-
rencies markets. We will learn in coming chapters how to detect hidden yet
repeating patterns that occur between these related markets and how forex
traders can profit from these patterns.
Which Is Bigger—Stocks or Forex?
Forex is by far the largest market in dollar volume, is less volatile, experi-
ences longer and more accentuated price trends, and does not have trading
commissions. Forex is the ideal market for the experienced trader who has

c01.qxd 9/24/06 9:48 AM Page 66
66 CANDLESTICK AND PIVOT POINT TRADING TRIGGERS
paid his or her “trading tuition” in other markets. However, there are no
free lunches. Traders must use all the trading tools at their disposal. The
better these fundamental and technical tools, the greater is their chance for
trading success. While intermarket and other relationships are often com-
plex and difficult to apply effectively, with a little high-tech help, traders
and investors can enjoy the benefits of using them without having to scrap
their existing trading methods.
Forex versus Futures
The futures market through the International Monetary Market (IMM) of
the Chicago Mercantile Exchange has many benefits as well. Some believe
there are tighter spreads between the bid and the asking price, plus there is
no interest charge or rollover fee every other day. In addition, the futures
markets offer options for longer-term traders. There are transactions costs
that apply per round turn; but if the brokerage commission exchange, reg-
ulatory, and transaction charges are less than the PIP spread in forex, an
active speculator would be given a better cost advantage by using the fu-
tures markets instead of the forex spot markets.
Let’s compare a trade in forex to a trade with a similar-size contract
value on the futures exchange, using the example of a euro futures contract
on the CME, where it has a contract size of USD 125,000 worth of euros,
where each PIP would be 12.50 in value. If the commissions and related
fees are on a par with most discount brokerage firms, $20 is your transac-
tion cost per round turn, that is, $10 to buy and $10 to sell out the position.
Keep in mind that the contract value is 25 percent higher than a full-
size forex position, too. If a day trader in forex does a $100,000 full-lot-size
contract and pays three PIPS on every transaction for both the entry and
the exit of each position, this trader would be charged $30 per round-turn
transaction.
The futures arena also has other interesting features and products; one
is the U.S. dollar Index®contract traded on the New York Board of Trade,
as was shown in Figure 1.34. That index is computed using a trade-
weighted geometric average of six currencies. It virtually trades around the
clock—the trading hours are from 7 P.M.to 10 P.M., then from 3 A.M.to 8:05
A.M.,and then from 8:05 A.M.to 3 P.M.Unlike the forex, there are dailylim-
its on the price movement with 200 ticks above and below the prior day’s
settlement, except during the last 30 minutes of any trading session, when
no limit applies. Should the price reach the limit and remain within 100
ticks of the limit for 15 minutes, then new limits will be established 200
ticks above and below the previous price limit. Figure 1.35 shows a break-
down of the various currencies and their respective weights on the average.
The top four include the euro, which is the heaviest weight at 57.6 percent,

c01.qxd 9/24/06 9:48 AM Page 67
Trading Vehicles, Stock, ETFs, Futures, and Forex 67
FIGURE 1.35
followed by the Japanese yen at 13.6 percent, then the British pound at
11.90 percent, and the Canadian dollar at 9.10 percent.
FOREX TRADERS BENEFIT FROM FUTURES
MARKETS INFO
Forex traders can integrate futures data to help in trading decisions, such
as taking a trading signal based on chart patterns in the futures and trans-
lating it into a trading trigger signal in a forex market. Because spot FX and
futures trade in tandem, the price difference is called the basis. Generally,
day-to-day, they are geometrically equal (within a few PIPs). Since, as we
discussed, forex markets are decentralized, there is not a collective data-
base to measure two distinct studies, such as volume and open interest.
These are important tools, so let’s review what the basics are and how a
forex trader can use this futures information.
Volumeis the number of trades for the total contract months of a given
future’s contract, both long and short combined. For example, the futures

c01.qxd 9/24/06 9:48 AM Page 68
68 CANDLESTICK AND PIVOT POINT TRADING TRIGGERS
foreign currency markets trade on quarterly expirations—the March, June,
September, and December contract months. The volume will represent the
total for all the trades in each contract month. Most technical analysts be-
lieve that volume is an indicator of the strength of a market trend. It is also
a relative measure of the dominant behavior of the market. A further ex-
planation is that volume is the measurement of the market’s acceptanceor
rejectionof price at a specific level and time. There are several theories and
so-called rules when using volume analysis on price charts: First, if a mar-
ket is increasing in price and the volume is increasing, the market is said to
be in a bullishmode and can indicate further price increases. Second, the
exact opposite is true for a declining market. If price is declining and vol-
ume increases, it is said to be in a bearishmode and indicates further price
decreases. However, if a substantial daily market price increase or de-
crease occurs after a long steady uptrend or downtrend, especially on un-
usually high daily volume, the move is considered to be a “blow-off-top or
bottom exhaustion” and can signal a market turning point or a trend rever-
sal. Here are some guidelines to use when using volume analysis.
• Increasing volume in a rising price environment signals excessive
buying pressure and could lead to substantial advances.
• Increasing volume while prices are fallingmay signal a bear move.
• Decreasing volume while prices are climbingmay indicate a plateau
and can be used to predict a reversal.
• Decreasing volume with a weaker price environment shows that
fresh sellers are reluctant to enter the market and could be a sign of a
future downtrend.
• Excessive volume while prices are highindicates that traders are sell-
ing into strength and often creates a price ceiling.
• Excessively low volume while prices are lowindicates that traders are
buying on weakness and often creates a floor.
Open interestreveals the total amount of open positions that are out-
standing in existence and not offset or delivered upon. Remember that in
futures trading, this is a zero-sum game so that for every long there is a
short or for every buyer there is a seller. The open interest figure represents
the longs or shorts but not the total of both. So when examining open in-
terest, the theory or general guidelines are that when prices rise and open
interest increases, this reveals that more new longs have entered the mar-
ket and more new money is flowing into the market. This reflects why the
price increases. Of course, the exact opposite is true on a declining market.
Chartists combine both the price movement and the data from volume and
open interest to evaluate the “condition” of the market. If there is a price
increase on strong volume and open interest increases, then this is a signal

c01.qxd 9/24/06 9:48 AM Page 69
Trading Vehicles, Stock, ETFs, Futures, and Forex 69
that there could be a continued trend advance. Of course, the opposite is
true for a bear market when prices decline. Also, if prices increase, volume
stays relatively flat or little changed, and open interest declines, then the
market condition is weakening. This is considered to be a bearish situation
because if open interest is declining and prices are rising, then this shows
that shorts are covering by buying back their positions, rather than new
longs entering the market. That would give a trader a clue that there is a po-
tential trend reversal coming.
Here is a guide as to how to use this information to identify an oppor-
tunity when there is a major top or bottom in the spot forex markets: When
observing a continued long-term trend in a spot forex currency, if it trades
as a futures contract (whether it is in an uptrend or a downtrend), when
prices start to fluctuate with wider than normal daily price swings, or
ranges, or are in an extremely volatile condition, if it is combined with un-
usually strong volume and a decline in open interest, this is referred to as a
climaxing market condition. The market is getting ready to turn or re-
verse the trend.
In Figure 1.36, the graph is a split chart of the futures euro currency on
top with the volume and open interest study in the middle. The spot forex
euro currency is on the bottom. Notice that after the peak in prices, the vol-
FIGURE 1.36
Used with permission of esignal.com.

c01.qxd 9/24/06 9:48 AM Page 70
70 CANDLESTICK AND PIVOT POINT TRADING TRIGGERS
ume was increasing, as was the open interest. This was a warning that a
trend reversal was forming, rather than a small correction. Therefore, spot
forex traders would have a better decision-making process, that selling ral-
lies and looking to take sell signals at resistance would be a more fruitful
and profitable course of action.
INSIDER TRADING INFORMATION
There is one more source of information that stock and spot forex cur-
rency traders can borrow from the futures industry. It is the Weekly Com-
modity Futures Trading Commission’s Commitment of Traders (COT)
report. The CFTC market surveillance staff closely monitors trading activ-
ity in the futures markets in order to detect and prevent instances of po-
tential price manipulation. Some consider this “insider trading” information
because every week we get to take a look at which investor group is taking
which side of a trade. (There are many studies and books written on the
subject. In fact, it was covered in my first book on pages 162–165.)
As a futures trader for over 26 years, I have used this information to
capture many significant moves in the markets. Figure 1.37 shows that
FIGURE 1.37

c01.qxd 9/24/06 9:48 AM Page 71
Trading Vehicles, Stock, ETFs, Futures, and Forex 71
there are several categories. The first is the “non-commercial”—all large
professional traders or entities, such as a hedge fund, a commodity trading
advisor, commodity pool operators, and locals on and off the exchange
floors. Any trading entity that hits a reportable position limit (for instance,
in the CME currencies, at the end of 2005, the limit was 400 contracts) is re-
ported by the clearing firm to the exchange, which then turns the informa-
tion over to the CFTC.
The next category is the “commercials”—banks and institutions or
multinational conglomerate corporations looking to hedge a cash position.
The long and short open interest shown as “nonreportable positions” are
derived by subtracting total long and short “reportable positions” from the
total open interest. Accordingly, for nonreportable positions, the number of
traders involved and the commercial/non-commercial classification of each
trader is unknown. This balance of positions is assumed to be the small
speculators. If you look at the first column under non-commercials, you
will see the breakdown of long positions versus short positions. The next
line down shows the changes from the prior week; this is important infor-
mation because you will be able to see if these guys unloaded some of their
positions or added to them from one week to the next. The line under that
tells you the percent of longs and shorts that are held. The last line shows
how many traders there are that control longs or shorts. The information is
gathered as of the close of business every Tuesday by each of the clearing
brokerage firms and is turned over to exchange officials, who then report
the information to the regulatory body know as the CFTC. This information
is released on Friday afternoons at 3:30 P.M. (ET).
It is critical before acting on a decision based on this information to see
if there was a major price swing from Tuesday’s close to the time the in-
formation was released on Friday, because positions may have changed
hands. For example, in Figure 1.37, if the British pound was at 1.7400 at 5
P.M.on Tuesday and the price at Friday’s close was 1.7000, it will indicate
a 400-point move. If the COT showed small speculators net long, I will as-
sume that the speculators were no longer long, as not many small specula-
tors can handle a 400-point loss.
Can traders benefit and make money from this information?The an-
swer is that there is always a chance to make money. The key is to be able
to afford to be not too heavily leveraged if the market moves further than
anticipated. The COT is like an insider information report. It acts like a true
consensus of who literally “owns” the market. A forex trader can use this
data to determine in a long-term trend run if market participants are too
heavily positioned on one side of the market. It is generally the small spec-
ulator who is lefty holding the bag. Let’s face it—money moves the market,
and the banks and large professional traders are a bit savvier when it
comes to their business. After all, one would think a bank has a good idea

c01.qxd 9/24/06 9:48 AM Page 72
72 CANDLESTICK AND PIVOT POINT TRADING TRIGGERS
of what direction interest rates are going to go once a central bank meet-
ing occurs, right?
Suppose the small speculators are showing a nice short position of, say,
at least two longs for every one short. If the non-commercials are net long
and the commercials are net long, chances are that the small speculators
will be wrong. I am looking for imbalances in markets that have been in a
trending market condition for quite some time, and therefore I can develop
a game plan and start looking for timing clues to enter trades accordingly.
Keep in mind that the commercials sometimes are not right; they are not in
the market to time market turns. They are hedging their risk exposure in a
cash position. Therefore the non-commercials, or professional speculators,
in the short term are considered the smart money.
Here are some general guidelines to follow for using the COT Report:
• If non-commercials are net long, commercials are net long, and the
nonreportable positions category is net short by at least a two-to-one
margin, look at buying opportunities. In other words, go with the pros.
• If non-commercials are net short, commercials are net short, and the
nonreportable positions category is net long by at least a two-to-one
margin, look at buying opportunities.
• If non-commercials are net long, commercials are net short, and the
nonreportable positions category is neutral, meaning not heavily net
long or short, look at buying opportunities and stick with the smart
money speculating non-commercials.
WHAT EVENTS MOVE THE CURRENCY MARKETS?
Traders need to be aware of several key elements and events that can cause
currency values to move. For one, intervention plays a role in the curren-
cies. When the Bank of Japan felt that its export business would suffer at
the hand of an overvalued yen, it would intervene and sell yen to buy U.S.
dollars. Countries like Canada and Australia, which produce raw com-
modities, saw a rise in their currency valuations as global demand in-
creased for their goods and as their economies improved as well.
Foreign currency markets are mainly influenced by international trade
flows and investment flows, which are the same factors that influence the
equity and bond markets:
• Economic and political conditions.
• Interest rates, inflation, and political instability.
These factors have a long-term impact, which makes forex attractive
to trade due to the long-term trending conditions established by central

c01.qxd 9/24/06 9:48 AM Page 73
Trading Vehicles, Stock, ETFs, Futures, and Forex 73
bank decisions based on these factors. Forex also offers investors some di-
versification necessary to protect against adverse movements in the equity
and bond markets. Japan is closer to changing its zero-interest rule policy;
and when it does, it may attract money back to Japan and boost its cur-
rency value
STUDY THE “MACRO” ISSUES
Traders who are new to forex can take comfort in knowing that analyzing
and forecasting exchange rate movement rely solely on macroeconomic
factors—the “big picture” issues and concepts for which information is
readily available and intuitively grasped. Once traders have an understand-
ing of the big picture pertaining to an economic region, they can place
trades in the currency market to profit from their analysis. Currency traders
who are looking to capture big moves in exchange rate movement defi-
nitely should focus on three issues when attempting to assess the value of
currencies:
1. Interest Rates—The Carry-Trade Strategy. Each foreign currency has
a central bank that issues an overnight lending rate. This is a prime
gauge of a currency’s value. In recent history, low interest rates have
resulted in the devaluation of a currency. Many analysts assume this is
a function of the carry-trade strategy employed by many hedge funds.
This is a trade where one buys and holds currencies in a high-yielding
interest rate market, such as the United States, and sells or borrows
money from a foreign country where the currency is in a low-yielding
interest rate market, such as Japan. There is a significant risk exposure
to this investment, which requires large capital or a highly leveraged
position from an exchange rate fluctuation.
2. Unemployment Rate. The unemployment rate is a strong indicator of a
country’s economic strength. When unemployment is high, the econ-
omy may be weak and, hence, its currency may fall in value. The oppo-
site is true as well. The question that many economists look to answer
is what a specific country’s full-employment capacity level is. That
knowledge will give clues to the peak in productivity and economic
output. That knowledge also helps determine a country’s capital flows
and, therefore, is good information for currency traders to follow for
longer-term trend identification.
3. Geopolitical Events. Like all markets, the currency market is affected
by what is going on in the world. Key political events around the world
can have a big impact on a country’s economy and on the value of its re-

c01.qxd 9/24/06 9:48 AM Page 74
74 CANDLESTICK AND PIVOT POINT TRADING TRIGGERS
spective currency. Turmoil, strikes, and terrorist attacks, as we have
witnessed in the new millennium, all play havoc with and cause short-
term price shocks in the currency markets. Terms such as “flight to
safety,” as traders move money from one country to another, cause
shifts in currency values. These events need to be monitored by forex
traders as well.
Forex traders use fundamental analysis as described earlier to identify
trading opportunities by analyzing economic information for a longer-term
perspective. Short-term traders should also understand what and when re-
ports can cause a shift in currency markets. Knowing what time is best to
trade the markets will help you nail down when a potential trade may ma-
terialize. As the pie chart in Figure 1.35 showed, the largest percentage
value traded against the U.S. dollar was the euro. Therefore, that would
represent the European session. The central place of foreign currency deal-
ings is London, where the second-most-active trading volume occurs.
Therefore, it is where there are likely to be large range swings in the mar-
ket, granting day traders an opportunity to profit. The European session
runs from 2 A.M.(ET) until 11 A.M.(ET), so a euro currency to U.S. dollar
(EU/USD) or euro currency to British pound (EU/BP) or a British pound to
U.S. dollar (BP/USD) would be an appropriate pair selection to trade.
The U.S. session opens at 8 A.M.(ET), which overlaps the European ses-
sion; and these two sessions combined generate the bulk of trading activity.
Most major U.S. economic reports are released at 8:30 A.M.(ET); and, as ex-
pected, the currency markets generally react off those reports. This offers
traders the opportunity to trade off what is normally a violent price spike.
Once the U.S. markets close at 5 P.M.(ET), the currency markets are avail-
able to trade; but it is not until the Asian session opens at 7 P.M.(ET) that
markets will experience potential price swings. The Australian dollar (AUS)
and Japanese yen (JY) would be what traders would want to focus on, and
the trade opportunities there would be the USD/JY or the USD/AUS or the
cross pair trading the JY/AUS. Notice that the Asian markets overlap the
European session as well, so a Japanese yen versus euro currency cross
(JY/EU) is a popular pair to trade. Here are the time zones a trader wants to
focus on when trading spot forex markets.
• European session—2 A.M.(ET) until 11 A.M.(ET).
• U.S. session—8 A.M.(ET) until 5 P.M.(ET).
• Asian session—7 P.M.(ET) until 4 A.M.(ET).
The prime trading periods for day traders are from 12:30 A.M.(ET) until
5:30 A.M.(ET), from 7 A.M.(ET) until 12 P.M.(ET), and from 1:30 P.M.until 5

c01.qxd 9/24/06 9:48 AM Page 75
Trading Vehicles, Stock, ETFs, Futures, and Forex 75
P.M.(ET). These periods are when peak volumes occur, due to the opening
of the European session and economic reporting times in Europe. Then, as
the U.S. market opens, you have the window of opportunity to trade off the
volatility from the time when U.S. reports are released. In the afternoon of
the U.S. session, volume increases as traders rush to balance their positions
before the end of the day. These are the select times to trade forex markets
(more information can be found at www.fxtriggers.com).
For the most part, day and swing traders use technical analysis to iden-
tify opportunities from specific chart patterns that demonstrate frequent re-
occurring results. They need to trade in active time periods, trading off
trend lines and moving averages, which are a form of trend line analysis
that will help in certain market conditions. We will go over a set of moving
averages that is different from what is normally written about and that will
help identify conditional changes in the market, thereby giving forex
traders a better edge. We will also incorporate and show you how to calcu-
late support and resistance levels from mathematical-based models, such
as pivot point analysis, and other means, such as Fibonacci corrections
and extensions, to identify opportunities and drive trading decisions. These
are the methods I will be covering in this book to help you form a trading
plan based on specific rules and conditions for trading the forex markets.

c01.qxd 9/24/06 9:48 AM Page 76

c02.qxd 9/25/06 8:22 AM Page 77
CHAPTER 2
Determining
Market Condition
Bullish, Bearish, or Neutral
I
would say the hardest thing for any trader to do is buy high, especially
after seeing a huge run in the market. Buying high is a technique that
very successful professional traders use. It is also a contrarian ap-
proach. After all, if you feel that the value cannot go any higher, it probably
won’t, right? This market condition generally tempts traders to sell. That is
absolutely the wrong thinking! In most bull markets, that thinking falls
under the category of “picking tops without cause,” “justification,” and
“trading based off a set of rules or technical reasons”! Do not try to antici-
pate what the market will do next. Simply go with what the market tells you
it is currently doing. In other words, try to avoid concerning yourself with
why the market is moving; focus on what is occurring. That is my definition
of staying in the nowand, most important, staying with the trend.
Forget that last week the market may have taken a nosedive or that yes-
terday the market rallied significantly. Concern yourself with what the mar-
ket is doing now. Ask yourself where prices are in relation to the current
trend. It is up to you to identify the type of trader you are (day trader, swing
trader, long-term trader) and the time frame in which you trade (minutes,
days, weeks, . . .).
For example, a day trader in the mini–stock index futures or the foreign
exchange (forex) markets may only be working with a five-minute time
frame. In that case, she could care less what the market did last week or
yesterday. A day trader may also want to focus on a 60-minute trend to de-
cide whether she should hold the position for two or more periods. A swing
trader, who would hold a position for several days, may want to see what
77

c02.qxd 9/25/06 8:22 AM Page 78
78 CANDLESTICK AND PIVOT POINT TRADING TRIGGERS
the trend is doing from a weekly time perspective or from a time interval
based on the past several days. Longer-term position traders may want to
view the trend over several weeks or months. Cracking the code and un-
derstanding how to interpret what the market is telling you is what this
book is about and what it will hopefully teach you.
As a trader, you should recognize the immediate environment or mar-
ket condition. Is it up, down, or sideways? After a trend is established,
let’s say a bullish trend, it should consist of higher highs and higher lows. It
is usually a more fruitful situation to buy dips in that environment, as you
will you get more out of the trade in price magnitude than you will in sell-
ing the rallies. In a bullish environment, buying begets buying. Higher clos-
inghighs more importantly bring higher highs as momentum and assigned
values are justified.
WHAT DEFINES MOMENTUM?
The close is the assigned value for any market. The law of physics that
states “a body in motion tends to stay in motion until a force or obstacle
stops or changes that motion” really applies to this concept, because higher
assigned values can and do usually attract more buying and even new buy-
ers. That is what momentum is and why it is the key in trading. Think of
what an auction is like. There is excitement. People are furiously bidding up
the price of an object. It attracts more buyers. Gosh, it even attracts people
to bid on items they don’t even want. Then as value has peaked, the bidding
dries up; and the last person with the highest bid is awarded the item (or
stuck buying the high). Trading is essentially the same if you know when
it’s the right time or price level to enter the market and what signals to look
for to exit a trade.
There are all kinds of traders, and each one uses different forms of
analysis. What I teach short-term stock, forex, and futures traders is that
there is immediate equal access to the four common denominators that
each and every trade has to work with, without prejudice and exclusivity:
(1) the open, (2) the high, (3) the low, and (4) the close. For stock traders,
there is a fifth element: volume. Fugures traders who are longer term or
who like to confirm the strength or the weakness of a trend should also be
concerned with volume. In futures, unlike in stocks, the volume is not given
to the investing public in realtime intraday. Truthfully, that is why the fu-
tures and forex markets depend on technical analysis to speed the analyti-
cal process to determine a market move on pure price action. After all, it is
how we analyze, interpret, and act on the information that makes us differ-
ent as traders. As for forex, we do not have a means to measure volume as

c02.qxd 9/25/06 8:22 AM Page 79
Determining Market Condition 79
discussed previously. Therefore, it is wise for a forex trader to learn how to
borrow information from the futures markets.
WHAT MAKES A SUCCESSFUL TRADER?
The key elements to making money are this: Successful traders interpret
correctlyand act swiftly! Successful traders have the courage to act and act
promptly. I often ask what are the differences between successful traders
and not so successful traders are. I get all kinds of relatively good answers
of why traders fail, mainly due to the fact that folks share their own bad ex-
periences with me. The reason I give for success is very simple: Generally,
a successful trader does not make a habit of consistently buying the high of
a given time period and riding the loss out until it “turns around.” Inversely,
successful traders do not make a habit of consistently selling the low of a
session and riding that loser out. Successful traders have a plan; they follow
the market and go with the flow. After all, that is where the saying, “The
trend is your friend,” came from. So we need to determine the trend. That
is where charts come in handy.
As Figure 2.1 shows, there are but three states the market is in: (1) bull-
ish, or uptrend; (2) bearish, or downtrend; and (3) neutral, sideways, or
Uptrend
Downtrend
Sideways
FIGURE 2.1

c02.qxd 9/25/06 8:22 AM Page 80
80 CANDLESTICK AND PIVOT POINT TRADING TRIGGERS
what is known as a consolidation phase. We can see the current trend or
conditional state that the market is in. What we can’t see is when and by
how much that condition will change. That is one reason why many traders
lose—they anticipate or guess which direction the market will go; they
trade without a plan or set of rules to enter a trade. If you do believe that
the markets are an effective mechanism for reflecting the perceived value
on a given product at a given time, then you need to learn how to follow the
flow of the market. A chart shows the market in its current condition. Until
that condition changes, you need to go with the flow. So what signals
should you look for when conditions change? When the market is in an up-
trend, a simple signal is once the market ceases to increase its assigned
value by establishing not only higher highs and higher lows but, most im-
portant, when a market stops making higher closing highs.
As for a market that is in a downtrend, when different events occur—
such as lower highs, lower lows, or, more important, lower closing lows—
then it is starting to change conditions. If a bearish market or a bullish
market changes conditions, it will most likely go into what is called a con-
solidation or congestion phase. Figure 2.2 shows the market moving from
an uptrend to a congestion phase, or sideways pattern. What we need to do
then is, first, learn how to anticipate or discover what forecasting tool
would help us determine what the potential top of that uptrend would be
and, second, understand what clues to look for once it establishes the top
to help signal us that the trend may resume or that a reversal of the trend
will occur.
Resumption or Reversal?
Congestion
Uptrend
FIGURE 2.2

c02.qxd 9/25/06 8:22 AM Page 81
Determining Market Condition 81
WHERE’S THE CATCH?
As the market starts to trade higher once, it enters a trend phase. Generally
speaking, the market will pause or consolidate before resuming the up-
trend. However, there lies the catch and what substantiates the Random
Walk theory. Not at all times do markets resume an uptrend from the con-
solidation phase. False breakouts and reversals do occur. Most bullish
chart patterns, such as flags, pennants, rising wedges, and ascending trian-
gles, are just an assortment of classical technical continuation patterns that
exist in trends. These work in bar charts and candle charts. The larger pat-
terns tend to give a clue to the next move by forming in the direction of the
trend; the smaller corrective patterns, such as flags and triangles, lean away
from the trend. Sideways channels that form after a bullish trend have a
tendency to support off a past breakout point or an old high.
Figure 2.3 shows weekly chart of Apple Computer; it had an amazing
run after it went out of a period of congestion and blasted off to the upside.
Notice that after the bullish price direction resumed, prices do not make
FIGURE 2.3
RealTick graphics used with permission of Townsend Analytics, LTD.

c02.qxd 9/25/06 8:22 AM Page 82
82 CANDLESTICK AND PIVOT POINT TRADING TRIGGERS
lower closing lows until the second week in December. After that, as you
can see, it did move higher at the start of 2006; but the tweezer top forma-
tion (equal and opposite) contained the rally, and prices ended back where
they started.
FIND THE CLUES!
From a strict chart-reading perspective, finding the clues as to when a trend
is nearing completion is a matter of watching the relationship of the close
of the time period for which you are trading to past highs and lows. If you
study the chart in Figure 2.3, you will see the first leg or run-up in the mar-
ket from September 2004 until the first lower closing low occurred in
March 2005. The market never made a lower closing low during that time
period. Once it did, the market entered a consolidation phase. That was the
first conditional change. The sequence of higher highs, higher lows, and
higher closing highs stopped; and a new conditional change occurred—the
market made a lower closing low and closed below the open twice in a row.
The chart in Figure 2.4 zooms in on that specific area to help highlight what
occurs when a trend pauses or exhausts itself.
As traders, we are searching for information that will give us clues to an
advantageous entry spot to go long, whether it is at the beginning stages of
a bottom or breaking out of a congestion phase or a sideways channel. De-
termining the market condition, whether it is bullish, bearish, or neutral, is
what will help us in our trading decisions. There are many forms of techni-
cal analysis studies to help us achieve that. The best form of trend analysis
is the simple trend-line approach; you start with the lowest low point and
then draw the line up until the next corrective low point. Figure 2.5 demon-
strates the most common way to draw a supporting trend line. After a long
hard crash in IBM, a low was made on 4/17/2005 at 71.85 (the Weekly Pivot
Point S-1 targeted a low of 72.50). Drawing a line from that low and ex-
tending it out to the second reactionary low and extending forward illus-
trated a rising trend. As the market kept bouncing near that support line
(S-1), it advanced higher. Using this form of simple analysis will help you
identify the market’s condition and, therefore, develop a trading plan or
keep you focused to buy breaks.
As for determining a bearish or downward trend, you need to draw a
line from a peak, or top, in the market, as shown in Figure 2.6. You have a
series of lower highs to draw a resistance trend line. Start with the first
peak, extend the line downward to the next high, and then extend the line
forward. This will help you remain focused that the market is bearish, and
therefore you want to focus on selling opportunities.

c02.qxd 9/25/06 8:22 AM Page 83
FIGURE 2.4
RealTick graphics used with permission of Townsend Analytics, LTD.
FIGURE 2.5
RealTick graphics used with permission of Townsend Analytics, LTD.
83

c02.qxd 9/25/06 8:22 AM Page 84
84 CANDLESTICK AND PIVOT POINT TRADING TRIGGERS
FIGURE 2.6
RealTick graphics used with permission of Townsend Analytics, LTD.
As the trend line is drawn from the top and extended down to the next
high, notice that the highs are touching the newly drawn resistance line as
the market pushes away from the trend line. Also notice the sequence of
events that occur. It is the opposite of what we saw in a bull trend: Prices
are making lower highs and lower lows and closing below the opens (as in-
dicated by the dark candles); but more important, prices continually close
below the prior time period’s low. In addition, the downtrend does not end
until late November, when prices reverse these negative conditions. The
conditional changes that occur on the way down reverse at that time with
higher highs, higher lows, higher closes than opens, and, once again, the
most important feature of all, higher closes than a prior period’s high.
BE ON GUARD FOR CHANGES
I must reiterate that no one, no matter what, can foresee the future. There-
fore, you must be aware that changes can and do occur. You must under-

c02.qxd 9/25/06 8:22 AM Page 85
Determining Market Condition 85
stand what drives these changes as reflected on the chart patterns. Once
you can master identifying what drives price changes or trending market
conditions, then you need to learn how and when to execute a trade based
on those signals. Then the next phase is to manage the risks of the trade
and to learn how to exit the trade to harness the profits accrued in the
trade.
I will teach you how to spot these changes and what you can do to pro-
tect yourself from giving back profits by scaling out of trades, which will be
covered in Chapter 10. First, you need to be aware of the process that mar-
kets go through. Prices do go in trend mode as we have covered so far.
From a technical standpoint, there are certain clues that candle charts il-
lustrate to show you the true condition of the market. Pivot point analysis
will also help guide you as to price targets, either the high or the low or
both of a given session. If you have the understanding that markets can ei-
ther continue the original trend or reverse it on a dime, then you will be
able to filter out preconceived emotional opinions rather than “fight the
tape,” as it is called. You will read that the mind can, will, and does play
tricks on you when you are trading. So you need to focus on what the mar-
ket is showing you at the current moment.
The graph in Figure 2.7 seems a bit harsh—that a market condition
Not all consolidations resume trend!
Consolidation
Uptrend
Reversal
FIGURE 2.7

c02.qxd 9/25/06 8:22 AM Page 86
86 CANDLESTICK AND PIVOT POINT TRADING TRIGGERS
could be so bullish and yet completely fall apart at the seam after a con-
solidation period. What can and usually does happen is that a trader gets a
preconceived notion that the value of a given market should continue to
move in one direction. Most traders will continuously buy breaks after a
consolidation period. Granted, that might be a correct notion; but it might
not be the correct move, especially when proven wrong by the markets’
conditional changes as highlighted by specific candle patterns.
As you can see in Figure 2.8, the 5-minute e-mini–Standard & Poor’s
(S&P) chart shows how a market moves from bullish (or an uptrend) to the
consolidation phase to a complete trend reversal. Drawing a simple trend
line would help you identify a breakdown of the support; but the one most
important element that signaled a trend reversal was the fact that once the
market traded below the consolidation sideways channel support—more
specifically, closed below that level and remained below the channel sup-
port level—you had sufficient evidence to identify that the market’s bullish
condition had changed.
FIGURE 2.8
RealTick graphics used with permission of Townsend Analytics, LTD.

c02.qxd 9/25/06 8:22 AM Page 87
Determining Market Condition 87
FOREX MARKETS FALL PREY TO REVERSALS
Let’s examine a market that is not correlated to stocks, such as the euro
currency, to see how this market phenomenon known as a trend reversal
occurs. Keep in mind that the markets are a reflection of the cumulative
total (or sum) of market participants’ perceived value of a given product at
a given time. We went over the fact of how massive the spot forex market’s
liquidity is; not a single entity can manipulate prices. Something or some
event must drive traders’ opinions of the markets. One such event is a news
or economic report, which can change people’s opinions on a given mar-
ket’s value.
As we look at the euro currency chart in Figure 2.9, we see the market
develop into an uptrend, then consolidate, and then, bang, on the drop of a
dime, drastically reverse. This is the kind of trading environment in which
traders can and do make lots and lots of money. If you know what to look
for and if you understand once a market goes from trend to consolidation,
you should be aware that the next possible outcome might not be a trend
continuation but rather a complete trend reversal. Then you have a better
chance of not fighting against the current of the market, otherwise known
as the tape.
FIGURE 2.9
RealTick graphics used with permission of Townsend Analytics, LTD.

c02.qxd 9/25/06 8:22 AM Page 88
88 CANDLESTICK AND PIVOT POINT TRADING TRIGGERS
MOVING AVERAGES HELP!
The next method for identifying whether the market is bullish, bearish, or
in a consolidation phase is utilizing moving averages. The most familiar
one is the benchmark 200-day moving average. Most technicians and short-
term traders feel this is a worthless time period, with which I agree for
short- to intermediate-term trading.
Remember that the idea in using moving averages is to help determine
the true direction of the market. The longer the time period used in a mov-
ing average, the less effective it is for shorter-term trading. Keep in mind
that a 200-day moving average is over 28 weeks, more than half a year. The
Federal Reserve raised rates four times in 2005 in that same time period.
That leaves way too much time and, more important, distance between
prices and the moving average to generate buy or sell signals.
When using moving averages the general guideline is simple:
• If prices are above the moving average, look to buy pullbacks or to
take buy signals, as the market is in a bullish mode or in an uptrend.
• If prices are trading below the moving average, look to sell rallies or to
take sell signals, as the market is bearish or in a downtrend.
Another instance in which traders use moving averages in helping their
trading is determining what is called “regression to the mean.” This is a
term many traders hear but really do not understand. It refers to the condi-
tion when prices deviate too far from the mean or average. At that tme,
prices will regress, or return, to the average; or the market will pause or
consolidate until the average catches up to the price. You will notice what
I call a “gap band” signal. This is what will occur when the prices gap too far
away from the moving averages or bands and give a trader an opportunity
for a countertrend trade. Another way to describe this is that when a mar-
ket deviates, or departs, too far from the moving average, it gives an op-
portunity for a speculator to take advantage of this condition, which
generally ends up with prices reaching an unsustainable extreme and then
returning back toward the moving averages for a short-term price swing.
The question is at what distance or price level do prices deviate, or move
too far away, from the moving average before market prices return to the
moving average or the market pauses in order for the moving average to
catch up to the prices.
As you can see in Figure 2.10, the market trends higher; but at times we
see reactions that shift values from one extreme to another. How do we use
moving averages effectively? More important, which time frames and
which set of conditional settings should we employ to give us a true sense
or value of the market? We will cover a different concept using a pivot

c02.qxd 9/25/06 8:22 AM Page 89
Determining Market Condition 89
FIGURE 2.10
point method later in the book. Right now, I want to set the foundation be-
hind the principle of why we use moving averages to help determine bull-
ish, bearish, or neutral market conditions and how to trade these
conditions. I try to figure out not why a market moved, but rather where the
market is now in relation to specific points of interest, such as past opens
highs, lows, and closes.
FILLING IN THE GAP
As you can see in Figure 2.10, the gaps that occur show that prices move
too far too fast in one direction, which is a condition known as overbought
or oversold. Those moves are unsustainable and thus form what we call
overvalued or undervalued in relation to the trend line or moving average.
Most market behavior as reflected by the human emotional state goes into
extremes. This is even the case in trending markets: They move either too
fast or too far in any one direction and then simply pause or correct back
above or below the various moving averages, as you will see. The chart in

c02.qxd 9/25/06 8:22 AM Page 90
90 CANDLESTICK AND PIVOT POINT TRADING TRIGGERS
Figure 2.11 is the spot euro currency. This market has an inverse relation-
ship with the U.S. dollar. As the dollar moved lower, the euro moved higher,
and vice versa. Notice that when it separates too far away from the longer-
term moving average (M/A), it would return back to test the M/A as a sup-
port line or fill the gap, as it is known. Finally, as it breaks below the M/A
support in the middle of September, it declines too far too fast and returns
back up to test the line, which now acts as a resistance trend line.
In conclusion, trend lines and moving averages help us determine the
price direction of a given market at a given time. They can also help us dis-
cover when a market is overbought or oversold. In simple terms, when we
use moving averages, the more time periods we use, the slower or less sen-
sitive moving averages are to price changes. Prices will trade and close
below a moving average in a bearish market condition, or a downtrend; and
prices will trade or, more important, close above a moving average in a bull-
ish market condition, or uptrend. Introducing more than one moving aver-
age with two different calculated values, such as 10-period and 20-period
simple moving averages on a closing basis, will generate buy and sell sig-
nals as one value crosses above or below the other. We can compute and
change the variables we use as well, such as closes and volatility calcula-
FIGURE 2.11
RealTick graphics used with permission of Townsend Analytics, LTD.

c02.qxd 9/25/06 8:22 AM Page 91
Determining Market Condition 91
tions. Moving averages help in the development of trading strategies, as we
will see in later chapters. There are also variables other than just a simple
moving average based on a closing time period that you can use. I will in-
troduce to you a pivot point moving average method in Chapter 6.
Forex, or currency, markets tend to establish longer-term trends, so
moving average studies are very popular with these markets. Also, moving
average systems can be back-tested; therefore, hypothetical results can be
produced for those looking to explore running a hedge fund.
In the next few chapters, we will introduce the pivot point system and
incorporate that as one of our moving average values. We will blend this
with a series of conditions and introduce various time frames to help us de-
termine:
• Market condition and direction.
• Overbought or oversold conditions.
• Potential turning points or reversal areas.
• A moving average system to determine buy and sell signals.
If you are looking to improve your skills as a trader, then these next few
chapters will help. I hope I will inspire you to learn how to develop a pre-
determined game plan, to act on that plan, and to manage and maintain the
profits in the trade and to learn how and when to cut the trade when the
market signals to do so.
If you understand the three directions in which a market can go—up,
down, or sideways—then you will have an edge on learning how to “read
the tape,” which should enable you to cut losses and let your winners ride.

c02.qxd 9/25/06 8:22 AM Page 92

c03.qxd 9/25/06 8:22 AM Page 93
CHAPTER 3
How to Read
Oscillators to Spot
Overbought or
Oversold
Conditions
I
n a bullish market environment, prices break out of a previous range
and trade higher. Depending on the move, sometimes the market
reaches an unsustainable extreme, which we refer to as “overbought.”
After all, market prices can’t go up forever without a pause. The outcome
varies when markets reach overbought conditions. They can, as stated,
pause or consolidate, correct back down a bit, or completely reverse the
entire price advance. Understanding when a market is likely to reach an
overbought condition is vital to knowing when to take a profit in a long po-
sition, especially after a long uptrend, or when to profit from a countertrend
trade opportunity. This is also referred to as a “mean-reverting strategy” or
“trading against the trend.”
We can measure or profile a market price extreme several ways: One is
by looking at past price resistance levels; another is by looking at the
strength or weakness of the market’s move by using certain technical indi-
cators that measure the current price, relative to previous highs and lows.
Some of my favorite tools that I use to compliment my trading method
include predictive analysis based on pivot point studies, as we will see in
the following chapters, with a strong emphasis on studying pure price ac-
tion, as we discussed in Chapter 2, by identifying higher closing highs in an
uptrend and lower closing lows in a downtrend.
I look to identify certain chart patterns or a signal that shows a shift in
momentum; and then I look for a sequence of events, such as higher clos-
ing highs at predetermined support levels or lower closing lows at prede-
termined resistance levels determined by the aid of pivot points analysis,
93

c03.qxd 9/25/06 8:22 AM Page 94
94 CANDLESTICK AND PIVOT POINT TRADING TRIGGERS
into which I incorporate various time frames to help me pin down reversal
target levels. This method is great for short-term day trading to long-term
investing. This method also works when I am looking at a swing trade,
which is a trade that may last anywhere from one to three days. For longer-
term trading, I use volume studies in the stock and futures markets to help
me confirm the strength or weakness of a trend or to gather a clue as to
when a major reversal is ready to occur. For spot foreign exchange (forex)
currency trading, volume figures are available to use from the futures mar-
kets; but because those figures are not available until the end of day, they
are not good day trading indicator tools. Therefore, the use of oscillators
and indicators help to confirm the condition of the market once I am in a
trade or about to make a trade based on an extreme price swing.
Some questions that are often asked when I am giving a seminar or a
presentation at a conference are: How many indicators do you suggest
using at one time? Do you get analysis paralysis from using too many? The
answer is that I use two indicators: stochastics and moving average con-
vergence/divergence (MACD).
Since trending conditions exist for less than 30 to 40 percent of the
time, you can anticipate that after a nice trend directional move, the market
will move in a consolidation phase, or “whipsaw” as most people call it. In
choppy range-bound conditions, stochastics is your friend; in trending mar-
ket conditions, MACD will give you solid signals.
The myth surrounding MACD is that one of the best indicators out
there is not necessarily true. So goes the old adage that there is no holy grail
for any single trading indicator or style. This is due to the fact that markets
change, as do market conditions and people’s perception on a product’s
given value or anticipated value in any given time. I believe that the sto-
chastic indicator is a more useful tool than the MACD during certain mar-
ket conditions and for determining various signals, such as divergences or
convergences. They both can be used for pinpointing reversals.
It is likely that one will give a faster signal than the other, and vice
versa. The one fact is that in trending markets, MACD can be your friend by
helping you to stay in a trade longer, thus milking a position for more than
you would imagine. This chapter will show several rules and techniques for
using both of these indicators.
STOCHASTICS
Stochastics, a range-based oscillator, is also considered a momentum os-
cillator. George C. Lane is credited with creating the formula. I had the

c03.qxd 9/25/06 8:22 AM Page 95
How to Read Oscillators to Spot Overbought or Oversold Conditions 95
privilege of working for George back in 1980. His indicator is a popular
technical tool used to help determine whether a market is overbought,
meaning that prices have advanced too far too soon and are due for a
downside correction, or oversold, meaning that prices have declined too far
too soon and are due for an upside correction. Stochastics is based on a
mathematical formula that is used to compare the settlement price of a
specific time period to the price range of a specific number of past periods.
The method works based on the premise that in a bull, or up-trending,
market, prices will tend to make higher highs and that the settlement price,
or close, will usually tend to be in the upper end of that time period’s trad-
ing range, or at least closer to the high. When the momentum starts to fade,
the settlement prices will start to push away from the upper boundaries of
the range; and the stochastics indicator will show that the bullish momen-
tum is starting to change. The exact opposite is true for bearish, or down-
trending, markets.
There are two lines that are referred to as %K and %D. These are plot-
ted on a horizontal axis for a given time period, and the vertical axis is plot-
ted on a scale from 0 percent to 100 percent. As you will see from the
formula, %K will be the faster of the two lines and will change direction be-
cause the %D line is a moving average of %K. The unique feature of the sto-
chastics reading is the moving average crossover feature.
Stochastics is a range-based oscillator with readings between 0 per-
cent and 100 percent. The main guidelines reflect the thought that readings
over 80 percent indicate that a market condition is overbought and ripe for
a downside correction and that readings under 20 percent signal the market
is oversold and ripe for a bounce. While that certainly is the case, generally
speaking, I look for more clues within the indicator to trigger a trade signal.
The formula to calculate the first component for fast stochastics using
a 14-period look back setting for %K is:
%K = c– Ln/Hn– Ln* 100
where c = closing price of current period
Ln = lowest low during nperiod of time
Hn = highest high during nperiod of time
n = number of periods
The second calculation is the %D (3-period). It is the moving average
of %K.
%D = 100(Hn/Ln)
where HN = the nperiod sum of (c– Ln)

c03.qxd 9/25/06 8:22 AM Page 96
96 CANDLESTICK AND PIVOT POINT TRADING TRIGGERS
RULES TO TRADE BY
When using stochastics as a confirming tool, I see the indicator corroborate
the timing of a market turn associated with a higher closing high, espe-
cially when it is in proximity of a targeted support level based off a pivot
point level. These rules will help to make better trading triggers for buy and
sell signals.
• When the readings are above 80 percent and %K crosses below the %D
line and bothlines close back down below the 80 percent line, then a
“hook” sellsignal is generated.
• When the readings are below 20, percent, once %K crosses above %D,
and once both lines close back up above the 20 percent level, then a
“hook” buysignal is generated.
The market in Figure 3.1 is a 15-minute candle chart on the Chicago
Board of Trade (CBOT) mini-Dow contract. The buy signal or trigger is gen-
erated once %K and %D both cross over and back above the 20 percent line.
It also confirms the first time after the downtrend that the market makes a
FIGURE 3.1
RealTick graphics used with permission of Townsend Analytics, LTD.

c03.qxd 9/25/06 8:22 AM Page 97
How to Read Oscillators to Spot Overbought or Oversold Conditions 97
higher closing high. We have not yet discussed candle patterns; but for
those already familiar with that charting method, you will notice that it is a
higher close above the doji high. The trigger to go long is on the close or the
next open, once the market makes a higher closing high, which in Figure 3.1
would be at 10810.
When the market trades near the daily projected resistance, as deter-
mined by using pivot point analysis, once prices start to make lower clos-
ing lows, which is a clue that helps us identify that the uptrend has
concluded. That is what generates a sell signal at 10838. That would be a
profitable scalp of 28 points at $5 per point, which is $140 on a day trading
margin of $500, which is what most futures brokerage firms charge.
STOCHASTICS CONFIRMS THE TURN
Now looking at the sell signal, we would have an opportunity to go short at
10838 as the market pivots and turns, as I say, off the resistance level as the
stochastics confirms with a %K and %D hook sell signal once both lines
cross and close below the 80 percent line. Follow the flow of the market
after that point: lower highs, lower lows, and, more important, lower clos-
ing lows all the way down to a low of 10739. That is a 99-point decline or
$495 per contract—almost a 100 percent return on your day trading margin.
As the market declines, we see the stochastics crossing above and back
below its respective values; but never does it cross back and close above
the 20 percent line. I am asked at what level do you take profits. I will go
over specific target exit levels later; but for right now, the most simplistic
answer is at the last trading price near 10758. The reason is that this would
have been a day trade; and as you can see from the bottom of the chart, the
day is running short on time. Profit objectives can be based not only on
price targets but also on time limits.
Figure 3.2 shows a pattern similar to that in Figure 3.1: a higher close
above a doji high. Candle chart aficionados may see a variation of a morn-
ing doji star pattern. I keep it very simple; I call it an HCD pattern, which
stands for a high close doji. This pattern has specific rules on entry and
exits and will be disclosed in just a bit. For now, please focus your attention
on the fast stochastics, as %K and %D both confirm the trigger to go long
once both lines cross and close above the 20 percent line. That trigger cor-
responds on the close of the candle, which was 10756. As the market moves
higher, follow the flow again as the momentum builds. The stochastics does
not generate a sell signal, as the high was made at 10805. We see a
crossover of %K and %D above the 80 percent line, but the stochastics does
not close back under that line.
The 20 percent and 80 percent levels in relationship with the %K and

c03.qxd 9/25/06 8:22 AM Page 98
98 CANDLESTICK AND PIVOT POINT TRADING TRIGGERS
FIGURE 3.2
RealTick graphics used with permission of Townsend Analytics, LTD.
%D values will help confirm your entries and exits in the markets, espe-
cially when you follow the trend or market flow as shown by the candle
charts. There is a reason why I have focused on the high close doji signal,
as we shall soon discover from a back-test study on percentile perspective.
But once again, this chapter is to help you better understand the confirm-
ing power that stochastics offers.
Markets need volatility in order to move, and we need markets to move
in order to trade. We also need to base our trading plans on reliable signals.
Not all times do the setups that trigger an entry work as perfectly as in
these examples, which is why I have other confirming signals to corrobo-
rate timing a trade signal. I also like to see if the methodology works in a di-
verse group, or noncorrelated markets. Testing for robustness, or how well
a system or signal responds in different markets, helps validate the relia-
bility of that signal. The chart in Figure 3.3 is a spot forex euro currency
that demonstrates the same setup and trigger that would enter a long posi-
tion with %K and %D crossing over above the 20 percent line with a con-

c03.qxd 9/25/06 8:22 AM Page 99
How to Read Oscillators to Spot Overbought or Oversold Conditions 99
FIGURE 3.3
RealTick graphics used with permission of Townsend Analytics, LTD.
firming higher closing high candle pattern. The sell signal also works well
as confirmed when %K and %D both cross over and close back below the 80
percent line.
TIPS AND TRICKS TO HELP
There are other tips and tricks associated when using stochastics. There
are fast stochastics and slow stochastics. The difference is in how the pa-
rameters are set to measure the change in price. This is referred to as a
gauge in sensitivity. A higher rate of sensitivity will require the number of
periods in the calculation to be decreased. This is what “fast” stochastics
does. It enables one to generate a faster and a higher frequency of trading
signals in a short time period. The previous two examples used the default
fast stochastics settings, which help you discover the cycles of tops and
bottoms faster than the slow stochastics setting will.

c03.qxd 9/25/06 8:22 AM Page 100
100 CANDLESTICK AND PIVOT POINT TRADING TRIGGERS
Stochastics Patterns
One other method in which to use the stochastics indicator is trading off a
pattern called bullish convergence. It is used in identifying market bot-
toms—where the market price itself makes a lower low from a previous
low, but the underlying stochastics pattern makes a higher low. This indi-
cates that the low is a “false bottom” and can resort to a turnaround for a
price reversal. Figure 3.4 shows how prices make a secondary low signifi-
cantly lower from a primary low, which is posted by a low in the stochas-
tics indicator.
The reverse of this signal is a trading pattern called bearish divergence.
It is used in identifying market tops—where the market price itself makes
a higher high from a previous high, but the underlying stochastic pattern
makes a lower high. This indicates that the second high is a “weak” high
and can resort to a turnaround for a lower price reversal. Figure 3.5 shows
FIGURE 3.4
RealTick graphics used with permission of Townsend Analytics, LTD.

c03.qxd 9/25/06 8:22 AM Page 101
How to Read Oscillators to Spot Overbought or Oversold Conditions 101
FIGURE 3.5
RealTick graphics used with permission of Townsend Analytics, LTD.
how the market makes a secondary high, but the corresponding high in the
stochastics is at a lower level than the price charts’ primary high point.
This stochastic pattern can alert you to a false breakout. Notice the low
close doji (LCD) off the secondary peak; and then as %K and %D both cross
over and close back beneath the 80 percent line, a sell trigger is generated.
That signal warns of an impending, prolonged downtrend of substantial
proportion. Therefore, it is important to monitor for divergence patterns.
Rules to Trade By
The bearish divergence pattern signals that there is an impending price re-
versal ready to occur in a market. As I mentioned previously, you can an-
ticipate and get ready to place an order to act on the signal; but you should
not act until the confirmation of a lower closing low triggers the entry,
which would be to act on the close or the next open. Here are four rules to
guide you to trading a stochastics divergence pattern:

c03.qxd 9/25/06 8:22 AM Page 102
102 CANDLESTICK AND PIVOT POINT TRADING TRIGGERS
1. The first peak in prices should correspond with a peak in the %K and
%D reading above the 80 percent level.
2. The second peak must correspond to a significant higher secondary
price high point.
3. If the secondary stochastics peak is less than or under the 80 percent
level, this signals a stronger sell signal.
4. Prices should make a lower closing lower to confirm a trigger to enter
a short position. Enter on the close of the first lower closing low or the
next open. The protective stop should initially be placed above the high
of the secondary high.
Figure 3.6 demonstrates a bearish divergence setup with the rules de-
scribed. This is a 15-minute candle chart on the CBOT mini-Dow. The sec-
ondary high is established at 10940. Both %K and %D make a primary high
above the 80 percent line, and the secondary high in price corresponds with
%K and %D below the 80 percent level. Once the long dark candle closes
below the prior low (in fact, it closes below five prior candles lows), a sell
signal is triggered. The initial entry is made on that time period close or on
FIGURE 3.6
RealTick graphics used with permission of Townsend Analytics, LTD.

c03.qxd 9/25/06 8:22 AM Page 103
How to Read Oscillators to Spot Overbought or Oversold Conditions 103
the next open, which in this case is 10897. The stop is placed at 10945,
above the high of the secondary peak high. As you can see, the market con-
tinues to decline into the close down to 10836, for a 61-point gain had you
exited on the close. That equates to a gain of $305 on a day trade margin of
$500 per contract. Notice that as the market declines, the stochastics indi-
cator remains below the 20 percent line as the %K and %D cross multiple
times but never back above the 20 percent level to trigger a buy signal until
after the electronic day session close, which is 4 P.M. (CT).
MACD
In simplest terms, moving average convergence/divergenceis an indicator
that shows when a short-term moving average crosses over a longer-term
moving average. Gerald Appel developed this indicator as we know it
today, and he developed it for the purpose of stock trading. It is now widely
used for short-term trading signals in stocks, futures, and forex markets, as
well as for swing and position traders. It is composed of using three expo-
nential moving averages. The initial inputs for the calculations were a 9-pe-
riod, a 12-period, and a 26-period. The concept behind this indicator is to
calculate a value, which is the difference between the two exponential mov-
ing averages, which then compares that to the 9-period exponential moving
average. What we get is a moving average crossover feature and a zero-line
oscillator, and that helps us to identify overbought and oversold market
conditions.
I might add that because traders are now more computer savvy than
ever before and because many charting software packages such as
RealTick allow traders to change or optimize the settings or parameters, it
is easy to change, or “tweak,” the variables in Appel’s original calculations.
Traders can increase the time periods in the moving average calculations to
generate fewer trade signals and can shorten the time periods to generate
more trade signals. Just as is the case for most indicators, the higher the
time periods used, the less sensitive the indicator will be to changes in
price movements. MACD signals react quickly to changes in the market—
that is why a lot of analysts, including myself, use it. It helps clear the pic-
ture when moving average crossovers occur. It measures the relative
strength between where current prices are as compared to past time frames
from a short-term perspective to a longer-term perspective.
The MACD indicator is constructed with two lines: One is the 9-period
exponential average (slow line), and the other is the difference between the
12- and 26-period exponential moving averages (fast line). In general, when
the fast line crosses above the slow line, a buy signal is generated; the op-
posite is true for sell signals.

c03.qxd 9/25/06 8:22 AM Page 104
104 CANDLESTICK AND PIVOT POINT TRADING TRIGGERS
The MACD also has a zero baseline component, called the histogram,
that is created by subtracting the slower signal line from the MACD line. If
the MACD line is above the zero line, prices are usually trending higher. The
opposite is true if the MACD is declining below the zero line. The MACD is
a lagging indicator; that is, it is based off moving averages. We want to look
for the zero-line crossovers to identify market changes and to help confirm
trade entries or trigger action to exit a position. As you can see in the e-
mini–Standard & Poor’s (S&P) chart in Figure 3.7, the MACD readings cross
back above the zero line, indicating a confirmed shift in momentum. That
zero-line cross helped filter out the bottoming process. A long position
would have been initiated at the close of the candle or at the next time pe-
riod’s open at 1267.25, which resulted in an immediate price gain, carrying
prices up over 1270.
Clues that identify shifts in momentum as the market moves from one
extreme to another or from overbought to oversold to trigger a trading op-
portunity can be identified with the aid of MACD readings in both the mov-
ing average and the histogram component. While profits are higher when
FIGURE 3.7
RealTick graphics used with permission of Townsend Analytics, LTD.

c03.qxd 9/25/06 8:22 AM Page 105
How to Read Oscillators to Spot Overbought or Oversold Conditions 105
buying the absolute bottom, that is a haphazard guessing game to play.
Trading based on a set of rules and using a confirming indicator to identify
a change in price direction and then following that price movement are the
keys to making money in the markets. Figure 3.8 shows an e-mini–S&P ex-
ample; the intraday trend is established to be higher by 10 A.M., as the sym-
metry of higher highs and higher lows exists. The MACD confirms an HCD
trigger as the histogram bar crosses above the zero line, initiating a long at
1234.75. Notice that the histogram bars continue to expand higher, con-
firming that the bullish momentum is accelerating. Identifying a zero-line
cross is a powerful tool in confirming entries, and watching the progression
of the histogram bars may help you maintain a winning position.
It is not in every single instance that we see the MACD signals work ex-
actly the same as Figure 3.9 demonstrates. The histogram was not under
the zero line; therefore, a zero-line cross did not trigger. However, observ-
ing that the histogram bars move higher as prices start to advance would
certainly help confirm the strength of the uptrend.
FIGURE 3.8
RealTick graphics used with permission of Townsend Analytics, LTD.

c03.qxd 9/25/06 8:22 AM Page 106
106 CANDLESTICK AND PIVOT POINT TRADING TRIGGERS
FIGURE 3.9
RealTick graphics used with permission of Townsend Analytics, LTD.
RELY ON THE PATTERNS
Another method useful with the MACD indicator, and one that is more reli-
able for determining a trend reversal, is to identify the pattern called bull-
ish convergence. This is where the market price itself makes a lower low
from a previous low, but the underlying MACD pattern makes a higher low,
as shown in Figure 3.10. This indicates that the second low is a weak, or
“false,” bottom and can resort in a turnaround for a sharp price reversal.
This is similar to stochastics; however, since it is developed from moving
averages, the timing of the shorter-term versus the longer-term moving av-
erages can delay such a signal. There is a high probability that MACD and
stochastics work more so than other indicators with this pattern.
As you can see in Figure 3.10, which is a five-minute chart on Intel, the
market made a lower low in the next trading session where the MACD his-
togram makes a higher low. Notice the HCD signal. Then as the price starts
to appreciate, the MACD histogram triggers or confirms a long position
with a zero-line crossover, and the progressively higher histogram bars con-

c03.qxd 9/25/06 8:22 AM Page 107
How to Read Oscillators to Spot Overbought or Oversold Conditions 107
FIGURE 3.10
RealTick graphics used with permission of Townsend Analytics, LTD.
firm the positive momentum right into the close of the day. The MACD is a
very useful tool as a confirming indicator once you have entered in a posi-
tion, especially by following the histogram readings.
The MACD has the same principles as far as a sell signal with what is
known as bearish divergence. This is where the market price itself makes a
higher high from a previous high, but the underlying MACD crossover lines
make a lower high. This indicates that the second high is a “weak” high and
can resort to a turnaround for a lower price reversal. In Figure 3.11, a daily
chart in the FX spot euro currency, the MACD histogram helps identify
both bearish and bullish divergence patterns.
One other useful method in using MACD is to follow as stated the di-
rection of the histogram bars to help confirm a turn or a change in trend.
Figure 3.12 shows the price advance in the e-mini–S&P as the market closes
in on a pivot point resistance level, and the market moves from a bullish
condition as prices move higher or in an overbought state and the his-
togram readings start to expand over 300. As the market price conditions
change, as the close is below the open, and as the market makes the first
lower closing low, especially near the pivot resistance line, the histogram

c03.qxd 9/25/06 8:22 AM Page 108
FIGURE 3.11
RealTick graphics used with permission of Townsend Analytics, LTD.
FIGURE 3.12
RealTick graphics used with permission of Townsend Analytics, LTD.
108

c03.qxd 9/25/06 8:22 AM Page 109
How to Read Oscillators to Spot Overbought or Oversold Conditions 109
bars start rolling down or making lower highs as well. In a weak or down-
trending market, the bars should also be making lower highs; and in this
case, they are confirming a sell signal from the change in market condition
as well as the moving average crossover as prices trade under the moving
average lines. This last example is what we will be going over in later chap-
ters as we combine pivot point analysis with candle patterns.
SUMMARY
In conclusion, all oscillators, indicators, and most moving average studies
will give confirmation when a market shifts direction; and knowing these
signals will help you identify a trading opportunity. They also will help give
you a clue when a market is in an extreme price condition, described as
being overbought and oversold. Therefore, as a trader, you need something
that gives you a better idea of entering a trade. The next few chapters will
reveal ways by which you will learn how to identify shifts in momentum be-
fore looking at an indicator as confirmation. Impossible, you say? Well,
there are certain patterns such as the high close doji, the jackhammer can-
dle pattern, a low close doji, or the shooting star formation that, when up
against a projected pivot support or resistance line, will alert you to a trade
entry faster than using these traditional indicators. When I introduce you to
the concept of using a pivot point moving average component as was used
in Figure 3.12, then you will see how it is possible.

c03.qxd 9/25/06 8:22 AM Page 110

c04.qxd 9/25/06 8:23 AM Page 111
CHAPTER 4
Momentum
Changes
How to Spot Divergence
or Convergence
T
he battle to identify when a trend ends or when a trend will start is
one of the key elements on which traders make their bread and
butter. When a market reaches an unsustainable price extreme either
up or down, we want to be able to be prewarned so we can set up our trad-
ing account with the right contract sizes and preset the buy or sell order
and then wait for the trigger to act. We have the traditional indicators that
we went over in Chapter 3 with stochastics and MACD (moving average
convergence/divergence), but there is one more measure of data we have
that stock traders and longer-term futures traders have been using for over
a hundred years. That one bit of data is called volume. The one disadvan-
tage that foreign exchange (forex) traders have is that there is no way to
measure volume data unless you “borrow” it from the futures markets, as I
shared in Chapter 1.
VOLUME IS THE BEST PRICE CONFIRMATION
TOOL AND TREND INDICATOR
In Chapter 1, we went over the basic rule structure for volume analysis. But
how can we apply that to help confirm market price extremes? This is ac-
tually fairly simple, if you know what to look for. That is what this section
is designed for. It does not matter what market you are trading, whether it
be stocks, futures, or forex. The principles are the same and apply to all
three markets. Remember that a good trader has a reason for entering a
trade. A greattrader waits until the signal triggers and then acts on that sig-
111

c04.qxd 9/25/06 8:23 AM Page 112
112 CANDLESTICK AND PIVOT POINT TRADING TRIGGERS
nal. Just because a market goes up and is “too high” in value does not mean
it is going down, at least not until the signals are present. Market price ex-
tremes are generally a reflection of high volatility; and with high volatility
comes increased market participation or action, and that action is mea-
sured or reflected by high volume.
OVERBOUGHT MARKET CONDITION—
A DEAD GIVEAWAY
If you drop a boulder off a cliff, it falls at a speed that is much greater than
the speed of the boulder being pushed up a hill. That is the analogy of what
happens when a bull market or uptrend stretches too far too fast, or is
“overbought.” So we look for these types of conditions in which to ride the
price direction if we are looking to establish a short position or we want to
exit a long position before the boulder falls. Using volume analysis in con-
junction with indicators is a powerful tool to help you determine whether a
market price trend may continue. Look at Figure 4.1. This chart on Amazon
FIGURE 4.1
Used with permission of www.GenesisFT.com.

c04.qxd 9/25/06 8:23 AM Page 113
Momentum Changes 113
is a dead giveaway that the price appreciation was unsustainable; as we
see, the market moved from a bullish trend to a consolidation phase with
higher highs. However the volume levels were declining, giving a direct
clue that the price advance was unsustainable. When combined with the
low close doji pattern, which we will disclose in Chapter 8, and a shooting
star, there was no reason to stay long this market. Notice that as prices
started to depreciate, the volume increased, which reflected sellers’ active
participation, which attracted more selling.
THE “COMEBACK” KID STOCK
In Figure 4.2, we see one of the greatest success stories in 2005 for any com-
pany, Apple Computer. It just could do no wrong, except when the price of
the stock advanced too far too fast, culminating in an overbought unsus-
tainable price extreme. The fundamentals were quite rosy, as holiday sales
were through the roof on iPods and accessories. You want to talk about a
FIGURE 4.2
Used with permission of www.GenesisFT.com.

c04.qxd 9/25/06 8:23 AM Page 114
114 CANDLESTICK AND PIVOT POINT TRADING TRIGGERS
racket; this company has products on top of products that accessorize the
accessories, none of which are inexpensive. What a gold mine! Holiday
sales were strong, and the market blasted off. In fact, notice the gap up,
then notice the gap down, leaving what we technicians call an island top.
(This formation is covered in Technical Trading Tactics on page 75.) It
also formed the low close doji pattern. It really is the volume that helped
confirm the market’s overbought condition. As prices broke out of the side-
ways pattern, from a high near 75 as it went onward to over 85, see
the volume decline showing fewer market participants wanting to join the
price advance. As the sell-off materialized, like a boulder falling off a cliff,
more participants started selling as volume increased, signaling a strong
price reversal.
BLOW-OFF TOPS ON VOLUME SPIKES
Volume levels help confirm the true strength of a price move if the market
demonstrates a price increase. If volume does not confirm the market’s
new assigned value, something is wrong and a price reversal is imminent.
Volume is also a great indicator of blow-off tops, or what is called an ex-
haustion rally. Volume spikes or surges can and do indicate price reversals,
especially after a price advance on declining volume is preceded by a lack
of price follow-through. As we study the chart in Figure 4.3, you see that the
huge price advance is accompanied with abnormal or heavier than usual
volume. You would anticipate that a breakout to sharply higher levels
would occur. The high volatility reflects the increased volume levels; and as
the next time frame shows, there is no follow-through to back the price ad-
vance. This is a clear sign of a price reversal. The low close doji trigger also
seals the deal that this was simply a one-day wonder rally that failed, and a
price reversal was to be expected.

c04.qxd 9/25/06 8:23 AM Page 115
Momentum Changes 115
FIGURE 4.3
Used with permission of www.GenesisFT.com.
INTEGRATE VOLUME AND INDICATORS
Volume helps the position trader identify the strength of the trend of the
lack of conviction of market participants. Take a look at Toll Brothers in
Figure 4.4. This stock took a complete nosedive starting in mid-July. Many
thought that the bottom was in and that a rally would take this home
builder back to the highs. Not quite so, said the volume! There was a rally
attempt, but it was on lower volume. Adding the MACD indicator shows
confirmation that a price trend or market rally would not occur. The MACD
signaled a negative zero-line cross, and the moving average components
crossed as well. The low close doji trigger did not help matters for hopeful
bulls either. As the failed rally crumbled, the downtrend resumed and vol-
ume started to increase, confirming a bear trend. The MACD indicator con-
tinued to back that downtrend, warning traders that lower prices would
prevail.
I want to illustrate how you can integrate volume with both MACD and

c04.qxd 9/25/06 8:23 AM Page 116
116 CANDLESTICK AND PIVOT POINT TRADING TRIGGERS
FIGURE 4.4
Used with permission of www.GenesisFT.com.
stochastics so you can see how helpful volume analysis can be to indicate
overbought market conditions. Armed with this information, you will have
an easier job identifying trading opportunities and a less stressful time
choosing a strategy. Figure 4.5 shows Toll Brothers at its peak. It was a
media darling. The housing bubble was ready to burst; so when people say
they never saw it coming, they just did not know what to look for. The mar-
ket went into a blow-off phase, which resembles the pattern or condition
that Apple Computer was in in Figure 4.2. The volume was declining on
higher prices, the MACD had a lower high, and stochastics confirmed the
bearish divergence. A low close doji pattern formed at the top (which was
within pennies of the monthly pivot resistance number). Once the price re-
versal occurred, you can see how much volume picked up, confirming the
trend reversal. In fact, the average daily volume levels increased as the
downtrend materialized.

c04.qxd 9/25/06 8:23 AM Page 117
Momentum Changes 117
FIGURE 4.5
Used with permission of www.GenesisFT.com.
BULLS TAKE CHARGE
I illustrated the relevance of volume confirming technical indicators and
stated the principles that apply to all actively traded markets, including
forex or spot currency traders. The opposite signals work for identifying
bottoms in all actively traded markets. Let’s look at one of my favorite
stocks, Starbucks. What an experience! Paying two bucks for a cup of black
joe! I’ll tell you what, if it hadn’t been for my friend Les Zieba (my coffee
connection) and Starbucks, this book would most likely never have been
finished. Just on my intake of Ventes alone writing this book, I probably
added a dollar per share to the value of this stock. In any event, let’s look at
the chart in Figure 4.6. The stochastics and, more important, the MACD dis-
played a solid bullish convergence, with corresponding higher lows as
prices made lower lows. As the price dipped, forming a hammer, notice
how the volume levels declined. As we discussed in Chapter 3, the MACD
can trigger a signal later than stochastics can, and here we see that occur.
The point is, the volume levels were declining on newer lows, indicating
that this market was percolating—ready to reverse higher, full steam
ahead!

c04.qxd 9/25/06 8:23 AM Page 118
118 CANDLESTICK AND PIVOT POINT TRADING TRIGGERS
FIGURE 4.6
Used with permission of www.GenesisFT.com.
TRADERS NEED TO ASK MORE QUESTIONS
I always like to ask myself questions about a market or a potential trading
opportunity. One such question is, If a market is so bearish, why does it not
go down? Figure 4.7 shows Agilent Technologies, a solid company that was
one of the many tech darlings that imploded. As we see, the market appears
ready to decline and fill the gaping hole called a gapbetween 26 and 28 in
August 2005. Notice that the chart pattern makes a lower low formed by a
hammer candle. But the market decline was on significantly lower volume.
On one hand, one would think the gap would be “filled” as prices trade back
near the low end of where the gap was created near 26 per share. But on the
other hand, volume and both the MACD and stochastics indicators worked
together to indicate otherwise. Prices reversed sharply higher based off the
jackhammer pattern (we discuss this very bullish pattern and the rules to
trade it in Chapter 8). As the price of this stock traded higher, notice the
volume levels moved in the price direction, meaning volume was increasing
on increasing prices.
You can identify overbought or oversold conditions based on a variety

c04.qxd 9/25/06 8:23 AM Page 119
Momentum Changes 119
FIGURE 4.7
Used with permission of www.GenesisFT.com.
of methods. Volume studies help me understand what the true strength or
weakness of a trend is. When prices are making what can be perceived as a
“false high,” meaning a higher high, it is accompanied on lower volume lev-
els. When volume levels are not moving parallel with prices, a divergence is
occurring. So if prices are moving up, we should see volume moving up.
When price is going up and volume is going down, something is wrong and
I need to ask myself why. It is at this point that I am aware that something
is not internally correct with the market, especially if the fundamentals are
wildly bullish. If volume is not confirming the price action, I should take
that clue and should start looking for strategies in which to capture a po-
tential trend reversal opportunity, whether it is by liquidating a long or by
initiating a short position or by buying a put option or by taking on another
option strategy.
The same holds true for the opposite condition: When prices are mak-
ing a false bottom, we have a bullish convergence or oversold condition.
That situation exists and can be spotted as the price direction is not con-
firmed by volume. If prices are making lower lows, if the market is truly
bearish, we should see heavy volume. When volume levels are light and

c04.qxd 9/25/06 8:23 AM Page 120
120 CANDLESTICK AND PIVOT POINT TRADING TRIGGERS
prices are declining, it is a signal that selling pressure is drying up. Then as
prices reverse higher to confirm a true turnaround, we should see volume
increase as buyers come into the market. This is exactly what happens in
Figure 4.7. In addition, using the indicators to help spot these false bottoms
will give you added confidence not only to execute a trade but also, more
important, when.

c05.qxd 9/25/06 8:24 AM Page 121
CHAPTER 5
Pivot Points
Determine Key Price Support
and Resistance Areas and
the Importance of Confluence
T
his chapter is the heart and soul of the book. It will explain the
methodology of pivot point analysis from “A to Z,” or should I say “R-
3.” This chapter will describe in full detail the principles behind the
mathematical calculations and the rationale behind the psychological im-
pact that drives traders to make decisions around these predicted support
(S) and resistance (R)levels. I will break this chapter into separate sections
to explain how pivot points can be used for short- and longer-term stock
trading; how it applies to futures trading, especially when day trading stock
index futures; and finally how it applies to the spot foreign exchange
(forex) markets. Each investment vehicle has its own nuances, such as
trading session hours, time periods in which volume flows change, contract
sizes, and decimal point placement so that you know how to correctly cal-
culate the pivot point levels. You need to know the foundation of the
methodology of pivot point analysis first, so you will know how to then
apply it to the specific markets of interest that you are trading.
The power in using pivot point analysis is that it works in all markets
that have established ranges, based on significant volume or a large group
of collective participants. After all, the current market price equals the col-
lective action of buyers and sellers. Pivot point analysis is a robust, time-
tested, and, best of all, testable form of market analysis; that is, you can
back-test to see the accuracy of this trader’s tool’s predictive analysis. The
really unbelievable aspect of pivot point analysis is who uses it. In fact,
many traders feel compelled not to learn about it because it seems compli-
cated. I will dispel that myth. Other traders who had read my previous book
121

c05.qxd 9/25/06 8:24 AM Page 122
122 CANDLESTICK AND PIVOT POINT TRADING TRIGGERS
felt that since I had mentioned futures, rather than equities or forex, pivot
analysis did not apply to those specific markets. The truth is that many
leading educators in the field of forex and stock trading have either bought
my advanced trading course or attended one of my live two-day trading
seminars and now share these methods. These are the same techniques I
will explain and teach in the following chapters and reveal in the accompa-
nying CD (compact disc).
Remember I explained previously that as a trader you have the right
and the obligation to understand everything there is about trading. You
need to have a good understanding of game theory. Many traders today use
a “black box” method, which is run by algorithm means, that triggers trades
automatically. You must understand what goes into building a trading sys-
tem and how it triggers the automatic reaction when a market price hits at
or near a specific level. You are competing not just against fellow traders,
but against institutions and major investment groups as well as savvy com-
puter experts, who have a method for removing the emotional element
from trading. So what are these levels, and why do we see major reactions
or reversals from these mysterious points on the charts?
SUPPORT AND RESISTANCE IN DISGUISE
If a market departs too far from the mean or moving average, there are two
sides to consider: one from a profit perspective, and the other from a risk
perspective. Institutions and professional traders know this and will have a
predetermined price level calculated to either enter or exit a position. In
laymen’s terms, if a market went too far too fast, it is time to get out and
take a profit or to take advantage of an extreme price move by initiating a
countertrend trade. So in order to gauge what the standard deviation is,
many professional traders use pivot point analysis because it is based on a
testable method.
Pivots are disguised price points because they cannot be detected most
times using such conventional technical analysis techniques as traditional
support and resistance trend lines, Fibonacci levels, and Gann fan angles,
and indicators like moving averages and such oscillators as the CCI (com-
modity channel indicator), stochastics, and the MACD (moving average
convergence/divergence) studies. It is imperative that you know how to de-
termine where the pivots are so you are aware at what time and price level
the market will most likely change direction. That does not mean to say that
at times pivot points coincide or line up near one of these other technical
studies. In fact, pivot point levels coincide frequently with Fabonacci ex-
tension correction levels, which are referred to as confluence or coinci-
dental factors. I will explain that in more detail as well.

c05.qxd 9/25/06 8:24 AM Page 123
Pivot Points 123
Pivot point analysis is the best “right side” of the chart indicator, as I
like to call it, due to its predictive accuracy. It is a mathematical formula, as
I understand, originally developed by Henry Wheeler Chase in the 1930s.
Chester W. Keltner used part of the formula to develop the Keltner bands as
described in his book, How to Make Money in Commodities(Keltner Sta-
tistical Service, 1961). However, it was really Larry Williams who was cred-
ited with repopularizing the analysis in his book How I Made One Million
Dollars Last Year Trading Commodities(Windsor Books, 1979). Don Lam-
bert, the creator of the commodity channel indicator, uses the pivot point
formula that makes the CCI work.
In my first book, A Complete Guide to Technical Trading Tactics
(Wiley, 2004), I illustrated many trading methods that you can apply using
pivot point analysis, including the power of multiple time frames or what is
know as confluence of various target levels. This book will highlight those
techniques, as well as explain how to incorporate the pivot point as a mov-
ing average trading system and how to filter out and narrow the field of the
respective support and resistance numbers, and will divulge various for-
mulas that are popular today.
MATHEMATICAL CALCULATIONS
Pivot point is a mathematical formula designed to determine the potential
range expansion based on a previous time period’s data, which include the
high, the low, and the close or settlement price. One reason why I believe
in using these variables from a given time period’s range is that they reflect
all market participants’ collective perception of value for that time period.
In the beginning of the book, I quoted Jesse Livermore: “The patterns the
traders and technicians observe are simply the reflections of human emo-
tional behavior” [Richard Suitten, Trade Like Jesse Livermore(Wiley, 2005,
p. 70)]. The range, which is the high and the low of a given time period, ac-
curately reflects all market participants’ exuberant bullishness and pes-
simistic bearishness for that trading session. The high and the low of a
given period are certainly important as they mirror human emotional be-
havior. Also, the high is a reference point for those who bought out of
greed, thinking they were missing an opportunity; they certainly won’t for-
get how much they lost and how the market reacted as it declined from that
level. The opposite is true for those who sold the low of a given session out
of fear that they would lose more by staying in a long trade; they certainly
will respect that price point the next time the market trades back at that
level. So the high and the low are important reference points of interest.
With that said, pivot point analysis incorporates the three most important
elements—the high, the low, and the close—of a given trading session.

c05.qxd 9/25/06 8:24 AM Page 124
124 CANDLESTICK AND PIVOT POINT TRADING TRIGGERS
THE LEADING INDICATOR
The definition of the pivot point is the average of the high, the low, and the
closing price. Pivot point analysis is mainly used as support and resistance
levels. The pivot point is the heartbeat of the analysis; without it, projected
ranges and market condition cannot be determined. It does act as a support
or resistance level as well. Pivot point analysis helps as a leading price indi-
cator for traders because it gives traders advanced indication of potential
highs or lows or, in some cases, both in a given time period, unlike Fibonacci
studies, where there is no predicted time period in which a projected price
correction or projection will occur. I want to step up the concept so that you
can develop a trading system on some powerful setups and on what triggers
a trade. As I disclosed, professional stock, forex, and futures traders
have had significant success in utilizing these “hidden lines”; and I think
that with a more thorough understanding of the concept, so will you.
As a quick review, one of the main benefits for using pivot point calcu-
lations is that they help determine when to enter and when to exit posi-
tions. As a trader, you already know you can only book a profit when you
exit; and if you don’t exit a losing trade quickly, it is hard to maintain, or
keep, what you have already made. Pivot points are used to project support
and resistance or actual highs and lows of trading sessions. These numbers
are derived from a mathematical formula; there are several versions that,
for your benefit, I will go into; but keep in mind that I still use the most com-
mon method to derive my analysis. Here are the most common formulas:
• Pivot Point—the pivot point (P) is the sum of the high (H), the low (L),
and the close (C) divided by three.
P = (H + L + C)/3
• Resistance Level 2—R-2 is the pivot point number plus the high and
minus the low.
R-2 = P + H – L
• Resistance Level 1—R-1 is the pivot point number times two minus
the low.
R-1 = (P ×2) – L
• Support Level 1—S-1 is the pivot point number times two minus
the high.
S-1 = (P ×2) – H

c05.qxd 9/25/06 8:24 AM Page 125
Pivot Points 125
• Support Level 2—S-2 is the pivot point number minus the high plus
the low.
S-2 = P – H + L
Some analysts are adding a third level to their pivot calculations
to help target extreme price swings on what has occurred on such oc-
casions as a price shock news-event-driven market reaction. It seems
that I have noticed that the spot forex currency markets tend to experi-
ence a double dose of price shocks beause they are exposed to foreign
economic developments and U.S. economic developments that per-
tain to a specific country’s currency. This tends to make wide trading
ranges. Therefore, a third level of projected support and resistance were
calculated
Resistance Level 3—R-3 = H + 2 ×(Pivot – Low) or (P – S-1) + R-2
Support Level 3—S-3 = L – 2 ×(High – Pivot) or P – (R-2 – S-1)
There are other variations that include adding the opening range, in
which case you would simply find the sum of the open, the high, the
low, and the close; and then divide it by four to derive the actual pivot
point.
P = (O + H + L + C) /4
One more variation of that concept—to factor in gaps from adverse
price moves from one day to the next—is to take the previous session’s
high, low, and close, add in the new trading session’s open, and then
add in those variables and divide by four. In using both open prices,
you still calculate the extreme support and resistance levels with the same
formulas.
P = (new O + old H + old L + old C) /4
Let’s go over what these numbers mean and how price action reacts
with these projected target levels. But first, let me state that I personally do
not use the R-3 or S-3 levels because I believe in looking at the progressively
higher time period’s price support or resistance projections. For example,
from the daily numbers, I would look at the weekly numbers, and then from
the weekly numbers I would look at the monthly numbers. The longer the
time frame, the more important or significant the data. Also, it is rare that
the daily numbers will trade beyond the extreme R-2 or S-2 numbers; and
when the market does, it is generally in a strong trending condition, in

c05.qxd 9/25/06 8:24 AM Page 126
126 CANDLESTICK AND PIVOT POINT TRADING TRIGGERS
which case we have methods to follow the market’s flow, which we will
cover in the next few chapters. By focusing in on just a few select numbers
and learning how to filter out excess information, I eliminate the analysis
paralysis from information overload. Do yourself a favor and keep reading
because this does get exciting. The following list shows how the numbers
would break down by order, what typically occurs, and how the market be-
haves. Keep in mind that this is a general description. You will learn what
to look for at these price points in order to spot reversals so you can be-
come more profitable from trading in the markets.
• Resistance Level 3—Extreme bullish market condition generally cre-
ated by news-driven price shock. This is where a market is at an over-
bought condition and may offer a day trader a quick reversal scalp
trade.
• Resistance Level 2—Bullish market price objective or target high num-
ber for a trading session. It generally establishes the high of a given
time period. The market often sees significant resistance at this price
level and will provide an exit target for long positions.
• Resistance Level 1—Mild bullish to bearish projected high target num-
ber. In low volume or light volatility sessions or in consolidating trad-
ing periods, this often acts as the high of a given session. In a bearish
market condition, prices will try to come close to this level but most
times fail.
• Pivot Point—This is the focal price level or the mean that is derived
from the collective market data from the prior session’s high, low, and
close. It is the strongest of the support and resistance numbers. Prices
normally trade above or below this area before breaking in one direc-
tion or the other. As a general guideline, if the market opens above the
primary pivot, be a buyer on dips. If the market opens below this level,
look to sell rallies.
• Support Level 1—Mild bearish to bullish projected low target number
in light volume or low volatility sessions or in consolidating trading pe-
riods. Prices tend to reverse at or near this level in bullish market con-
ditions but most times fall short of hitting this number.
• Support Level 2—Bearish market price objective or targeted low
number. The market often sees significant support at or near this
level in a bearish market condition and is a likely target level to cover
shorts.
• Support Level 3—Extreme bearish market condition generally created
by a news-driven price shock. This level will act as the projected target
low or support area. This is where a market is at an oversold condition
and may offer a day trader a quick reversal scalp trade.

c05.qxd 9/25/06 8:24 AM Page 127
Pivot Points 127
Most of the research and books written on technical analysis cover the
topic of trade entry and how to use indicators, oscillators, and moving av-
erage studies. Few go over how to target exits. Longer-term traders have
read the works done on volume analysis to help determine the strength or
the weakness of a trend. There is further information on consensus studies,
such as the Commitment of Traders (COT) reports; the VIX, which is a
volatility index, is based on calculations using options on the Standard &
Poor’s (S&P) 500 Stock Index. Plus, the put-to-call ratio helps give investors
an idea if a trend is ready to change. None of these studies actually helps a
trader with targeting a potential trading range in a given time period. That
information will help a trader with setups and triggers on entering a posi-
tion and, most important, exiting a position. This is where pivot point
analysis will help you.
Think for a moment: If most technical tools are lagging indicators and
if most traders follow and use these trading indicators to make trading de-
cisions, then it would make sense that most traders get trading signals and
execute entering into a position on a lagging basis or well after a move has
been established. Then, if the same indicator gives the exit signal too late,
perhaps that is what perpetuates habit or the consistency of losing money
in the markets, from entering or exiting later, based on lagging indicators.
Then, in order to adjust getting in too late, traders anticipate a market
turn; and more times than not, that turns out to be a bad trading decision.
Or traders may decide to just “hang in there” a while longer, thinking that
the market may just return and give them back the sweet profits that were
just accumulated in the trade. That is a syndrome that many traders tell me
they fell victim to. By using pivot point support and resistance levels, you
can speed up the analytical process on entries; and by employing certain
trade management techniques that we will go over in a later chapter, you
can effectively help improve your exits. After all, that is one of the most im-
portant aspects of trading. A profit is just a paper asset until a position is
offset. The offset relies on an exit strategy. Ask yourself this question: How
many times have I been in a trade and thought I was doing the correct thing
by letting my winners ride, by holding on to the position only to see my
paper profits erode and then perhaps turn into a loss? The flip side to this
is: How many times have I taken a quick profit, banked the money, and no
more than a few moments later watched the market explode dramatically
further in the direction of my original position? Just when you say the mar-
ket can’t move any further, that’s when it usually does. You need discipline
and patience to stay with a trade. These situations will likely happen; but by
utilizing pivot points and by watching the market’s behavior at or near
these levels, you will be better prepared to make better trading decisions,
especially on exits.

c05.qxd 9/25/06 8:24 AM Page 128
128 CANDLESTICK AND PIVOT POINT TRADING TRIGGERS
POSSIBLE OUTCOMES WHEN PRICES ARE
NEAR PIVOT AREA
You need to stay in the “now,” to focus on the current market condition or
environment. Keep telling yourself that what happened in the past or per-
haps even your last trade is of no concern to the current trade you are in.
Remember that each trade will have a different outcome. The patterns we
see and the way a market behaves at or near a pivot point support or resis-
tance level will be different. Therefore, the velocity and the magnitude of a
price move will vary every time. For example, as shown in Figure 5.1, prices
could come close to but not exactly hit the pivot level. That does not mean
prices will do that every time. As Figure 5.2 shows, prices can exceed re-
sistance by a small margin; this may invite you to buy a breakout of the re-
sistance level and trap you into buying the high. Then, as Figure 5.3
illustrates, prices can hit the pivot support number exactly, which does
happen frequently. But if you program yourself to anticipate, that will be
the outcome every time; you will be in for a rude awakening due to the po-
tential that Figure 5.4 represents the occurrence that sometimes prices just
come close and consolidate or congest near the pivot point support or re-
sistance levels for a period of time before reacting off those levels. Once
again, the market’s past performance is not indicative of future results; so
we need more information in the thought process to initiate a trade and to
exit a trade. The pivot point levels will allow you to set up a particular
game plan; therefore, when you apply more layers of analysis, such as can-
dle patterns and a moving average approach of the pivot point, that is
where you will improve on your trading decisions, from both your entries
and your exits.
FIGURE 5.1 Prices could come FIGURE 5.2 Prices exceed
close but not exact. resistance.

c05.qxd 9/25/06 8:24 AM Page 129
Pivot Points 129
FIGURE 5.3 Prices can hit FIGURE 5.4 Prices congest near
exactly at the pivot level. support.
DETERMINE THE RANGE
Data should be used for the all session trading markets with the close of
business as the settlement price. In the futures markets, I do not use just
the U.S. markets’ open outcry trading session. Here is why: The night ses-
sions of most markets include the Asian and the European markets; and
those participants do trade in U.S. financial markets. If an event took place
that caused a market to move and a trade price was recorded, then it is a
valid price point and will be put in the history books as a trade occurring.
Therefore, I consider that information as accurate from a valid trading ses-
sion. Most U.S. retail or individual speculators may not be up at 3 A.M. (CT)
trading off a market move; but potentially, professional traders are, and
therefore the information is considered valid. Gosh, even the exchanges
seem to believe it’s valid since money moves into and out of an account if
a trade is made; so the high or low of that period should be considered.
MULTIPLE TIME FRAME ANALYSIS
Daily, weekly, and monthly time frames can and should be utilized as well.
To understand how price moves within the pivots, begin by breaking down
the time frames from longer-term to shorter-term. So start with a monthly
time frame, for which, as you know, there is a price range, or an established
high and low for that given period; so we should be watching these predic-
tive price points as well. Think of this: There are approximately 22 business
days, or about four weeks, in every month; and each month, there will be an
established range—a high and a low. In a week, there are typically five trad-
ing days. Now consider that on one day of one week in one month, a high
and a low will be made. It is likely that the high and the low may be made

c05.qxd 9/25/06 8:24 AM Page 130
130 CANDLESTICK AND PIVOT POINT TRADING TRIGGERS
in a minute or within one hour of a given day of a given week of a given
month. That is why longer-term time frames, such as monthly or weekly
analysis, should be included in your market analysis. It is also the reason
why I do not use the R-3 or the S-3 targets. I rely more on the longer-term
time frames targeted support and resistance levels. Pivot point analysis re-
lies on data from specific time frames in order to determine support and re-
sistance levels for the next particular trading session. It is prodictive and
both time- and price-sensitive information.
The analysis or calculations for the prior day, week, or month may not
be applicable two or three sessions later. At the end of each time period,
data will need to be recalculated. The exception to this rule is that if there
is a time period after a wide-range session that is a smaller range, then I
would keep the data from the session with the wider range in mind for an-
other one or two trading periods. For example, using a daily analysis, if
Tuesday had a wide trading range and then Wednesday had a small range,
I would keep the targeted support and resistance numbers derived from
Tuesday in mind for Thursday’s session. The same principle applies to a
week or a month.
In the world of 24-hour trading, the most popular question I get from
those studying and using pivot points is, “What are the times that you derive
the high-low-close information from?” There are many different people
telling many different stories. Here is what I do and what seems to work
best. For starters, just keep things simple and apply some good old-fash-
ioned common sense. If the exchanges and the banking system use a spe-
cific time to settle a market, then that is the time that you should consider
a close. The exchanges and banks should know—their rules make the
money move. I want to follow the money flow.
• Stocktradersuse the settlement price from the close of business at 4
P.M.(ET).
• Forex traders should use the 5 P.M. (ET) New York bank settlement
close.
• Futures traders, in the e-mini–S&P, Nasdaq, and Russell contracts, use
the close of 3:15 P.M. (CT). For the Chicago Board of Trade (CBOT)
mini-Dow contract, I take the close at 4 P.M.(CT).
• For the weekly calculations, take the open from Sunday night’s ses-
sion, and use the close on Friday.
• For the monthly calculations, take the open from the first day of the
month, and use the close of the last day of the month.
We have established the reasons why we use all sessions for extracting
the range, or high and low, and what time periods constitute the closes. We
know where and how and when. Now, let me show you what pivot point

c05.qxd 9/25/06 8:24 AM Page 131
Pivot Points 131
FIGURE 5.5
projected supports and resistance line up to look like. In Figure 5.5, we
have a good representation of how the R-3 down to the S-3 levels would line
up based on a previous session’s high, low, and close data. The hash marks
between each level are the midpoint numbers. As you can see, this presents
13 price points to monitor. To most traders, including myself, this is simply
information overload. If you include using these 13 levels for each day,
week. and month, that would put 39 trading support and resistance num-
bers on your chart for each trading day. That could cause a trader to possi-
bly go blind or, at the very least, could create analysis paralysis. Granted,
you may be right in stating that you picked the top or the bottom of each
trading session, but it is impractical or highly unlikely that you can trade off
that information. I am not saying that at times it may help having the mid-
points or R-3 or S-3 target levels in front of you; I just believe in keeping
things simple, and less is better.
FILTER OUT INFORMATION OVERLOAD
I have developed a method to filter out the pivot numbers; this is just one
facet that I explain to attendees of my trading seminars and to students.

c05.qxd 9/25/06 8:24 AM Page 132
132 CANDLESTICK AND PIVOT POINT TRADING TRIGGERS
Keep in mind that this methodology applies to all markets, including stocks,
futures, and especially spot foreign currency markets, or forex. This
method can work for a short-term application for identifying a potential
range for a day, a week, or a month. By having a good idea, well in advance,
of what the high or the low for a given time period might be, you are able to
use this information to apply the right trading vehicle or strategy, such as
whether it is simply selecting an entry level or getting in or selecting a profit
objective or getting out of a trade. You could also determine whether to
apply an option strategy or when to use an exchange traded fund, as we
discussed in Chapter 1.
Predicting Highs and Lows Using the
Calculations
What I do to determine the potential range for a given session is to take the
R-1 and the S-1 initially for my analysis, especially in low-volume consoli-
dating trading sessions.
I use the actual pivot point for many things; one that is useful is under-
standing that it can be used as an actual trading number in determining the
high or the low of a given time period, especially in strong bull or bear mar-
ket conditions. In an extremely bullish market condition, the pivot point
can become the target low for the trading session. This number represents
the true value of a prior session. In an up-trending market, if the market
gaps higher above the pivot point, then a retracement back to the pivot will
attract buyers. Until that pivot point is broken by prices trading below that
level, traders will step in and buy the pullback. The opposite is true in an ex-
tremely bearish market condition; the pivot point will act as the target high
for the session. If a news-driven event causes the market to gap lower, once
traders access the news and discover it is not as bearish as thought, prices
may trade back up to test the pivot point; if the market fails to break out
above that price level and trades higher, sellers will enter the market and
take action, pressing the market lower again.
Filtering the Numbers
Technically speaking, in a bearish market, the highs should be lower and
the lows should be lower than those of the preceding time frame. If they
are, then I use that information to help me filter out unnecessary data or ex-
cessive support and resistance numbers on my charts. I use the actual pivot
point up to the R-1 number for resistance, and then I target the S-2 for the
potential low or for that time period’s trading range.
As you can see in Figure 5.6, if I determine the market is bearish and if

c05.qxd 9/25/06 8:24 AM Page 133
Pivot Points 133
FIGURE 5.6
I understand the relationship of the geometric distance of the resistance
and support targets, I can eliminate the R-2 number, since in a bearish en-
vironment we should see a lower high. If I am looking for a lower low, then
I can eliminate the S-1 support number as well; and now I have reduced the
field to just three numbers. If I apply the same methodology on daily,
weekly, and monthly charts, instead of 39 numbers, I am now working with
just 9 numbers. Once again, I am not using the numbers to place orders
ahead of time (even though you could); I use the numbers as a guide. These
numbers work so well and often act as a self-fulfilling prophecy because so
many institutions and professional traders do use them. Many have differ-
ent size positions on. Some traders may not wait for the exact number to
hit and may start scaling out of positions (as I do); and so should you. With
this method, you can use these numbers as exit areas on your trades. As
Figure 5.7 depicts, in a bullish market environment, by definition you may
agree that the highs should be higher and the lows should be higher than
those of the preceding time period. When I have determined that we are in
a bullish trend, I target the S-1 up to the pivot point for the low of the ses-
sion and the R-2 for targeting the high; and that will give me an idea of what
the potential trading range will be.

c05.qxd 9/25/06 8:24 AM Page 134
134 CANDLESTICK AND PIVOT POINT TRADING TRIGGERS
FIGURE 5.7
Lining Up the Numbers
When the market goes through the projected daily target numbers, I then
use the next time periods for a better gauge or reliability as to the next price
objective. That is where the significance of the weekly and the monthly
numbers comes into play.
Back in the late 1990s when I owned a brokerage firm, I developed a
method to help me line up the pivot point levels as shown in Figure 5.8; I
had all my brokers use these numbers, and many still do to this day. The
table of information was for the trading session of 1/18/2006.
My method categorizes the pivot point levels to the various market con-
ditions, such as neutral (Target Key) bullish, and bearish. I like to know
what the prior time period’s range and close were for fast access, so I in-
cluded that in as well. Since the pivot point is important, I include that on
the sheet, as shown in the last column on the right. The third column from
the right states Market Direction. That is a moving average of the actual
pivot point.
If the pivot point and the close or settlement price are below the mar-
ket direction number, then the market condition is deemed to be in a bear-
ish mode; and it helps me to line up the R-1 and S-1 numbers as the
projected target range for that next session. If you look down the far-left

135 FIGURE 5.8
Used with permission of www.nationalfutures.com.
c05.qxd
9/25/06
8:24
AM
Page
135

c05.qxd 9/25/06 8:24 AM Page 136
136 CANDLESTICK AND PIVOT POINT TRADING TRIGGERS
column to where you see “Bonds,” you will see that the market direction
number classified the market condition as bullish due to the location of the
previous settlement and that the pivot point was above the pivot point mov-
ing average.
The numbers targeted the high in bonds to be 11510⁄ (R-2) and the low
32
to be 11416⁄ (S-1). The pivot point was 11423⁄ .
32 32
Since the market closed at 11428⁄ , there was a strong chance to see
32
11510⁄ , as well as a low of 11416⁄ . Figure 5.9 shows the exact trading session
32 32
activity on a 15-minute candle chart. If you are a candle chart aficionado,
you will have spotted that the high was formed by a shooting star pattern
and that the low was made by a bullish engulfing pattern. While the market
broke out above the targeted resistance, it certainly did not stay there long.
Notice how the price penetrated the low but reversed off the projected low
as well. We will use this chart later in the book as we share statistical in-
formation on which candle patterns have high frequency of forming tops
and bottoms. At this point, just heighten your awareness that there was a
doji after the star at top and a doji near the bottom.
This chart also has another component—a moving average method
that we will discuss a variation of as well. By using the true value of the
FIGURE 5.9 Bonds trade the predicted pivot range.
Used with permission of esignal.com.

c05.qxd 9/25/06 8:24 AM Page 137
Pivot Points 137
market, which I refer to as the pivot point, we can help determine the mar-
ket condition and the projected price ranges as well as potential turning
points as market conditions change from bullish (uptrend) to bearish
(downtrend).
Pivots Combined with Candles
The CBOT mini-Dow is one of several great day trading futures products for
selecting trades that connect with pivot and candle patterns as Figure 5.10
shows. Notice how prices do penetrate briefly above the pivot targeted high
by forming the shooting star candle. See the market’s reaction as the price
declines over 70 Dow points (each point is $5 on the mini-Dow). That is a
$350.00 move in less than 75 minutes per contract. Since most futures firms
carry a $500.00 day trade margin per contract that translates into a healthy
return. Now that we know how to line up the numbers, we need to wait for
a setup or signal to trigger a short position. The shooting star, the moving
average crossover, and the dark candles all confirmed a technical signal
to sell.
FIGURE 5.10
Used with permission of esignal.com.

c05.qxd 9/25/06 8:24 AM Page 138
138 CANDLESTICK AND PIVOT POINT TRADING TRIGGERS
The graph in Figure 5.11 represents the e-mini–S&P 500 Stock Index
Futures on November 10, 2005; the targeted range was determined to be S-
1 and R-2, a bullish market condition. The actual low of the day was formed
by a hammer candle pattern (keep notes of what candle patterns form near
tops and bottoms, as we will be discussing this in detail in later chapters).
A buy signal is triggered with the sequence of higher highs and higher lows
but, more important, higher closing highs, as well. The moving average
crossover also helps trigger a long buy signal. The market rallies right up
within a tick or two of the R-2 number. As a day trader, it is great to have a
predetermined exit strategy. In this case, pivot point analysis accommo-
dated you in that respect. Other times, you will need to rely on your timing
to exit a trade; for example, as a day trader, once the market is near the
close of the business day, you should be offsetting your position. In the ex-
ample in Figure 5.11, you had a timing and a price element working for you
to help target an exit on what was a beautiful trade. The trigger to go long
was after the crossover of the moving average one candle after 11:30, as
prices established a higher closing high.
This trade would have resulted in a stellar 12.50-point gain from the
FIGURE 5.11 Bonds trade the predicted pivot range.
Used with permission of esignal.com.

c05.qxd 9/25/06 8:24 AM Page 139
Pivot Points 139
entry of 1221.50 up to the exit, which was 1233. The exit was triggered on
the first lower closing low and was confirmed by a close back under the
moving averages. On a day trading margin per contract in the e-mini–S&P
of $1,000 (brokerage firms vary on day trading margins), you picked up
625.00 per position.
The next chart I want to show you in Figure 5.12 is an example of how
a market, when targeted to be in a bullish mode, interacts with the series of
pivot support and resistance numbers. If there is a bullish bias, then S-1 up
to R-2 will be the potential range. Therefore, we are looking to take buy sig-
nals at support and have a profit objective in mind near R-2. This is a 15-
minute candle chart using the mini–Russell Stock Index futures. Notice
that as the market trades near the pivot support of S-1, prices consolidate
for almost two hours before triggering the buy signal as a higher closing
high and a crossover of the moving averages confirm the trigger to go long
at 657.50.
Prices penetrate the R-1 level and come close to the projected S-2 level.
As the trading session ends, you still have no reason to exit the position from
a technical standpoint except that as a day trader, your time is your exit
point. This trade was good for nearly a 9.50-point run, or $950 per contract.
FIGURE 5.12
Used with permission of esignal.com.

c05.qxd 9/25/06 8:24 AM Page 140
140 CANDLESTICK AND PIVOT POINT TRADING TRIGGERS
Let’s look at a spot forex market in Figure 5.13. We are looking at the
yen versus the U.S. dollar. The targeted resistance was the R-2; and as you
can see, the top was formed by an evening doji star formation, based on a
five-minute candle chart. Combining the knowledge of how to determine
the right pivot level with practicing the discipline to wait for a signal will
certainly help you target and select better trading opportunities. As you
can see in this chart, on a $100,000 lot size, you would have realized over a
100-point gain in less than two and a half hours. That translates to $1,000
per lot or contract.
Special note: Big moves do occur in forex during the U.S. nighttime.
This trade signal hit at 20:00 hours, or 7 P.M. (ET). So depending on your
trading capital and time constraints during regular market hours, the po-
tential opportunities that abound in the spot currency markets may be suit-
able for you to take advantage of.
FIGURE 5.13
Used with permission of esignal.com.

c05.qxd 9/25/06 8:24 AM Page 141
Pivot Points 141
THE IMPORTANCE OF CONFLUENCE
Time is an essential element in trading. There are many instances when
traders are correct in their predictions for a top or a bottom in a market;
but they are off in their timing, which results in a loss. Many analysts
were calling for a top or for the bubble to burst in the stock market in 1999.
In that situation, not demonstrating patience to wait would have resulted
in dramatic loss of profit potential or worse, actual losses due to selling
short stock too early. How about economists’ predictions of a housing
bubble back in 2003 and their expectations for a decline in real estate
prices? By July 2006 we had started to see prices go back down but not
to the severity as was predicted and certainly not at the time that was
expected by economists. I can go on and on with examples when prog-
nostications were correct, but timing was really wrong, resulting in a fi-
nancial loss.
Time and Price
As I stated earlier, pivot point analysis relies on both time and price
specifics in its calculations to project future support and resistance levels.
By incorporating price data for various time frames, such as daily, weekly,
and monthly, the more price areas that coincide with the different time pe-
riods, the greater is the likelihood that these price clusters will repel the
market’s advance in an uptrend or cause prices to reverse in a downtrend.
This clustering, or confluence, from more than one time period that con-
vergences with another is an awesome event and can translate into a very
lucrative setup. The time frames of numbers that target a specific price
level is termed confluence; in other words, the more corroborating numbers
that target a general area, the greater is the significance of that specific tar-
geted price level. Pivot calculations work to pinpoint almost exact times
and prices for trades in various markets and can be used to validate other
analysis. Remember this phrase: “There is always strength in numbers!”
The more pivot numbers that line up, the greater is the potential for a reac-
tion off those levels. This knowledge, combined with identifying the shift in
momentum by identifying and acting on strong triggers, increases the prob-
ability of a successful trade.
As an example, Figure 5.14 shows the daily, weekly, and monthly pivot
point numbers drawn across the chart; this gives a trader a heads up that
the market may reach an unsustainable extreme or oversold market condi-
tion. Just by looking at the graph, you can see that the market has been in
a prolonged downtrend. Generally, the market may stop its descent at a

c05.qxd 9/25/06 8:24 AM Page 142
142 CANDLESTICK AND PIVOT POINT TRADING TRIGGERS
FIGURE 5.14
confluence support zone; then you would want to wait for a shift in mo-
mentum to trade a potential price reversal. When the market starts to give
clues as to a bottom, you can determine a low-risk entry, as a bottom has
been defined. What would not be known is how high the market’s reaction
will be off this target level of support. This is where the candle chart section
will play an important role in helping to determine the strength of the
trend’s reversal.
In Figure 5.15, we have a weekly stock chart on Alcoa. Here we see a
confluence of two higher-degree time periods, such as the weekly and
monthly support numbers. What is uncanny is that the weekly pivot S-1 tar-
get low number was 22.33, with the actual low coming in at 22.28, just pen-
nies below the pivot support number. The monthly number lined up a little
higher than that at 22.99, which is a slightly wider margin of error. Remem-
ber, when I am trading, I am not looking to catch a falling knife by antici-
pating a bottom, even though in this example you could have placed a buy
order at the weekly number; and as the price moved through your buy
order, you may have been filled—and that was a great buy. However, the
better course of action, and the more reliable method to trade off this con-
fluence area, was to wait for a confirmed buy signal, such as the high close
doji signal (we go over that in Chapter 7). Notice the moving average
crossover and that prices confirm a conditional change in the market by
closing above the open and closing above both moving average compo-
nents. The true buy signal was generated at 24.20, and the risk would be
using a stop below the low at 22.28.

c05.qxd 9/25/06 8:24 AM Page 143
Pivot Points 143
FIGURE 5.15
RealTick graphics used with permission of Townsend Analytics, LTD.
Volatility Is Good
As long as there is trading volume—liquidity so you can enter and exit po-
sitions and price movement, otherwise known as volatility—pivot point
analysis will work in any market for position traders and short-term day
traders. No matter what your choice is for a trading investment vehicle, it
makes no sense that you would not want to incorporate this methodology
into your trading style. Let’s examine the chart in Figure 5.16, which is a
daily look at a spot forex euro currency versus the U.S. dollar. The monthly
S-2 target low was 116.90, the weekly S-1 lined up in close proximity at
116.58, and the actual low was 116.41. Looking at the market’s reaction
three days after the low, we see a bullish engulfing pattern. The confluence
of pivot support numbers gave one of the best and only predictive support
targets. Therefore, it should be noted that the longer-term numbers should
be watched carefully for clues not only for trading opportunities to enter
positions but also as a warning that the current trend could be exhausted
and potentially reverse. At the very least, you may not have wanted to es-

c05.qxd 9/25/06 8:24 AM Page 144
144 CANDLESTICK AND PIVOT POINT TRADING TRIGGERS
FIGURE 5.16
RealTick graphics used with permission of Townsend Analytics, LTD.
tablish a long position; you certainly would have been alerted not to sell
short at the low.
Let’s examine the 15-minute candle chart in the 30-year Treasury bonds
(T-bonds) shown in Figure 5.17. Once again, the market price scrapes
against the lows, and a hammer pattern forms the exact bottom. But notice
that the weekly pivot S-1 support target is 11214⁄ , which coincides with the
32
daily S-1 support target of 11220⁄ . The actual low was 11415⁄ ! Notice that the
32 32
market broke the daily support but did not make much of a decline and cer-
tainly did not remain below the support for a long period of time. That
leads me to this point: There are those who believe that once a support
level is violated, you should go with that breakdown momentum and sell
short. That may work occasionally, but it needs to be defined in more de-
tail, with a list of special rules and certain criteria in order for that to be an
automatic trading rule for me to initiate a trade. I believe that you should
look for buy signals at support and for sell signals at or near resistance, es-
pecially when there is a confluence of pivot point price targets. It is more
fruitful in buying the projected support, as this example shows.
In Figure 5.17, we see a trigger to go long after the high close doji trig-

c05.qxd 9/25/06 8:24 AM Page 145
Pivot Points 145
FIGURE 5.17
Used with permission of esignal.com.
ger is made at 11218⁄ (notice that the low was also formed by a hammer). As
32
the market goes into trend mode and rallies nearly a full basis point higher,
the signal to liquidate occurs once we see prices change conditions. As the
candles indicate, prices are closing below each period’s open; a lower clos-
ing low from a doji top occurs and the moving averages cross; and, finally,
the market price closes below both moving averages. That triggers the exit
at 11314⁄ . This was a 28-point (each thirty-second is 31.25 per point) gain for
32
$875.00 profit per position on a day trade.
CONFLUENCES WORK AT TOPS
We have all heard in the field of technical analysis that what works for
some patterns or signals is not applicable for all situations. However, the
power of pivot point confluences does work at market tops as well as work-
ing to indicate bottom reversals, as we just went over. In Figure 5.18, once
again the three main time periods that we use are the monthly, the weekly,
and the daily. When a congestion of pivot numbers line up, or cluster, near

c05.qxd 9/25/06 8:24 AM Page 146
146 CANDLESTICK AND PIVOT POINT TRADING TRIGGERS
FIGURE 5.18
a specific price zone, this heightens your awareness for possible reversals.
It is important to note that if a market has been in a long uptrend, say for
more than two months, and if the end of the quarter is near, the market is
ripe for a profit-taking correction. Generally speaking, professional trading
managed funds receive payment by a performance fee (profits) at the end
of a quarter. Since many of these large trading entities use pivot analysis or
are aware that others use them, when a confluence of resistance develops,
especially near the end of a quarter, look out below. It not only marks a
prime price level but also indicates a specific reason why a profit-taking
correction can occur at that time period. The same holds true for bottoms.
After a long price decline, if the numbers line up and if it is near the end of
a quarter, a profit-taking reversal could be in the works. That does not mean
to say that the original trend won’t resume, but you could take a great coun-
tertrend reversal trade. Generally speaking, market sell-offs have more ve-
locity; therefore, spotting resistance confluences can result in very
lucrative opportunities, under the right circumstances.
Earlier, I explained the saying “There is always strength in numbers.”
The concept can be explained further in that there is a strong analytical
value found in the number three, not just in trading and technical analysis
but also in our universe. As you may be aware, the number three is a Fi-
bonacci number; and when I look at confluences in the three different time
periods, “three” represents the three different groups of traders. The daily
numbers are used by day traders, the weekly numbers are used by swing
traders, and the monthly numbers are used by longer-term position traders
and institutions. Even in the Commodity Futures Trading Commision

c05.qxd 9/25/06 8:24 AM Page 147
Pivot Points 147
TABLE 5.1 Japanese Yen Spot Forex
Prior Period High Low Close
Monthly—November 119.95 116.37 119.80
Weekly—12/02/2005 121.24 118.33 120.59
Daily—12/02/2005 121.24 120.19 120.59
(CFTC) COT report, there are three classifications of traders: reportable,
commercials, and non-reportable. The number three is a highly correlated
number in market analysis. The coincidental factor in pivot pont analyses
derives from the fact that one set of numbers from one time frame gener-
allyhas nothing to do with another. If you look at the data for the Japanese
yen spot forex data in Table 5.1, you will see that the high and the close of
the week coincided with the daily high and close, as that was on a Friday.
Let’s look at Figure 5.19 and see how the numbers in the spot forex
Japanese yen line up. The market made a tremendous price move from the
FIGURE 5.19
RealTick graphics used with permission of Townsend Analytics, LTD.

c05.qxd 9/25/06 8:24 AM Page 148
148 CANDLESTICK AND PIVOT POINT TRADING TRIGGERS
low of 108.76 on September 5, 2005, until the high was made on December
5, 2005, at 121.40.
Let’s review before we go further. If you recall in Chapter 1, I stated
that forex traders can borrow information from the futures industry. One
such piece of data is the CFTC Commitment of Traders report. In essence,
this report reveals whose hands “control” the market. Exceptfor the yen, all
currencies are quoted as the currency versus the U.S. dollar. The yen fu-
tures are quoted as the opposite—as the spot forex markets. So spot forex
would quote the yen as 117.35; the futures quote would be .8572. What this
means is that when the CFTC report shows a net shortposition, traders are
in a long position in the spot yen forex markets against the dollar. As the
CFTC report showed at the end of the trading session as of 11/29/2005, the
funds, or the “non-commercials,” were long 22,626 contracts and short
86,626. That is a net short position of 64,000 contracts. Each contract is
1,250,000 worth of yen! The “commercials” were long 154,396 contracts and
short 85,604 positions. The small speculators were long 29,368 contracts
and short 34,160 positions. This means the banks, or “smart money,” estab-
lished a protective hedge position in the futures, betting that the spot yen
would fall in value against the dollar. Keep in mind that the non-commer-
cials are considered professional speculators; they, too, are considered the
smart money. The difference is that they are speculating and will not gen-
erally take delivery of a futures contract, which is 1,250,000 worth of Japan-
ese yen.
If we examine Figure 5.19 closely, we notice that after a substantial
price appreciation in a relatively short period of time, prices hit just past the
monthly R-1 of 121.04. Remember that the low on September 5, just three
months earlier, was 108.76. So the market made a huge up move, and the
banks and institutions or commercials were betting prices would fall. The
ends of the year and of the quarter were closing in, and we were hitting up
against a confluence of pivot point resistance. The weekly R-1 was 121.77;
and on the day the actual price high occurred at 121.40, the daily pivot R-1
was 121.16. When we combine the pivot point resistance levels with a few
bearish candle patterns, such as the rickshaw doji that formed the day be-
fore the high or the trigger to initiate a sell that occurred on the third day
after the target high was made you have a high chance to see a negative
market reaction on price reversal. Market tops that align with a cluster, or
confluence, of various pivot points can result in tremendous market rever-
sals, as this example shows, especially as they coincide with a major con-
sensus reading toward the end of the quarter.
The power of a sell-off does not necessarily have to occur near the end
of a quarter. In equities, end-of-year tax-loss selling prevails; and at the
first of the new year, as pension funds are buying stock, others are looking
to cash out their profits for tax deferment purposes. As the Chicago Board

c05.qxd 9/25/06 8:24 AM Page 149
Pivot Points 149
FIGURE 5.20
RealTick graphics used with permission of Townsend Analytics, LTD.
of Trade (CBOT) mini-Dow chart in Figure 5.20 shows, the monthly target
resistance R-2 was 11105, the weekly R-1 was 11101, and the daily pivot
target number was 11076 on 1/11/2006. The exact high was 11086! That top
marked a 413-point decline, as the low was 10673 just six trading days
later. The power of pivot point confluence from the prevailing three time
periods demonstrated that there was significant resistance; and the ac-
tions of the three groups of traders may have joined together in identifying
that area as a spot to sell. In Table 5.2, we see that the data collected to de-
termine the pivot point resistance levels from the three time frames were
all noncorrelated to some degree. The closing, or settlement, prices all
had different values, as did the highs and lows of each time frame. The pur-
pose for identifying a confluence zone is to heighten your awareness that
a potentially substantial move may be on the horizon and that a bigger re-
versal reaction may occur, giving a trading opportunity longer than a day
trade. Once you identify an opportunity, you can apply a strategy. In this
case, you might have been able to make a choice among selling Dow fu-
tures, buying put options on the futures, or selling the exchange traded
fund (ETF) diamonds.

c05.qxd 9/25/06 8:24 AM Page 150
150 CANDLESTICK AND PIVOT POINT TRADING TRIGGERS
TABLE 5.2 Pivot Point Confluences for Dow
Prior Period High Low Close
Monthly—December 11007 10728 10744
Weekly—1/06/2006 11014 10720 10998
Daily—1/10/2006 11058 10990 11052
In fact, let’s look at the actual chart pattern on that day to see what oc-
curred. In Figure 5.21, the date and time are stamped at the bottom of the
graph; and you will see we have a 15-minute candle chart showing that the
high was made at the end of the day, formed by a pair of shooting stars fol-
lowed by a doji.
These candle formations are very ominous signs indicating a bearish
tone; but, due to the end of the trading day, it hardly makes for a trading op-
portunity for a day trader to take a short position. However, the data did
give a trader a great opportunity to look at a profit objective from an earlier
long position, as the confluence of pivot point resistance levels and the
FIGURE 5.21
Used with permission of esignal.com.

c05.qxd 9/25/06 8:24 AM Page 151
Pivot Points 151
FIGURE 5.22
RealTick graphics used with permission of Townsend Analytics, LTD.
candle patterns confirmed that the bullish momentum was fading. In addi-
tion, once the market confirmed a top pattern, the day trader would be able
to shift his or her trading plan from buying breaks to taking selling oppor-
tunities as the trend conditions changed and there was overhead pivot
point resistance.
Looking at Figure 5.22, we see how the pivot points from the three
time frames (daily, weekly, and monthly) target the high near the 1300
level. The actual high was 1301.
In Table 5.3, you can see that the three sets of data (high, low, and
TABLE 5.3 Pivot Point Confluences for S&P
Prior Period High Low Close
Monthly—December 1285.00 1251.25 1254.75
Weekly—1/06/2006 1293.00 1251.50 1291.75
Daily—1/10/2006 1296.75 1289.25 1296.00

c05.qxd 9/25/06 8:24 AM Page 152
152 CANDLESTICK AND PIVOT POINT TRADING TRIGGERS
close) from three different time periods are different values. So the coinci-
dental factor really highlights the importance of pivot point confluences.
In Figure 5.23, the confluence of pivot points in the CBOT 30-year
bonds shows a setup similar in resistance levels to both the S&P and the
Dow in the examples in Figures 5.20 and 5.22 from the daily chart perspec-
tive. In fact, in this case, the bonds peaked nearly at the same time as the eq-
uity markets. This is a great point to bring up now; we will see periods in
the market where intercommodity or intermarket relationships change.
Stock and bond prices go in phases of parallel price moves, and then there
are periods in time where they decouple. Generally speaking, when interest
rates decline, bonds and stocks move higher. Then there are times when
stocks move sharply lower and bond prices move higher because they offer
security, which is known as a “flight to quality.” And then there was 2005,
when interest rates were rising and stocks and bonds moved in sync. Know-
ing when these changes in market relationships occur is helpful; however,
it is best at times to trade the markets independently of each other. This is
where identifying pivot point confluences based on two or three time
FIGURE 5.23
RealTick graphics used with permission of Townsend Analytics, LTD.

c05.qxd 9/25/06 8:24 AM Page 153
Pivot Points 153
TABLE 5.4 Pivot Point Confluences for Bonds
Prior Period High Low Close
Monthly—December 115 11183⁄
2
11463⁄
2
Weekly—1/13/2006 114243⁄
2
11333⁄
2
114223⁄
2
Daily—1/17/2006 114303⁄
2
114113⁄
2
114283⁄
2
frames will help you as a trader because you have predetermined price tar-
gets figured out in advance.
As Figure 5.23 shows, the daily and weekly numbers were more accu-
rate in determining the top. The monthly number was slightly higher by 10⁄ ,
32
a small margin of error. The important element to remember here is that we
are not looking to pick an exact top; rather, we are looking for a reason and
an area that offers a high degree of accuracy in helping to pinpoint a top or
a bottom and then looking for a secondary signal to trigger, or initiate, a
trade. The importance and coincidental factor in the theory of confluences
is once again that the numbers derived from the various time frames are
generally noncorrelated. Table 5.4 shows that the high in December was
from a different time period and had an assigned value different from the
weekly or daily number; and the same holds true for the low and the clos-
ing values.
The relationship that exists between geopolitical issues and economic
conditions (such as inflation, interest rates, foreign currencies, and gold)
from a historic perspective has been easy to track. In general terms, at
times when the dollar goes up in value, gold prices decline. When interest
rates climb, lease rates are more expensive, therefore putting downward
pressure on gold. Gold prices also move higher as investors buy gold as a
safe haven investment, as it acts as cash as well in times when doubt ex-
ists over the stability of a country’s economic condition or when currency
values change, as happened in the middle of 2005 when dissention among
euro zone countries existed and riots due to political instability in France
developed.
By late 2005, the dollar rallied as interest rates climbed, widening the
interest rate differentials between the United States and foreign countries.
Gold rallied sharply higher on these events, from the low on February 8,
2005, at 410 per ounce. By the end of 2005, gold had made a high of 540 per
ounce. By January 20, 2006, gold continued its ascent by making a high at
568.50 in the February futures contract.
The market had made a sharp rally, but the confluence of resistance
numbers held the market back, as shown in the 15-minute chart in Figure
5.24. In this chart, you will see the bearish engulfing pattern form as the

c05.qxd 9/25/06 8:24 AM Page 154
154 CANDLESTICK AND PIVOT POINT TRADING TRIGGERS
FIGURE 5.24
Used with permission of esignal.com.
market makes a violent reversal. Longer-term prices did recover and moved
even higher as of the writing of this book. The point is that by using pivot
points combined with candle patterns, you can time your entries and exits
in the market for a better price point. That is an outstanding advantage
from a risk-reward perspective.
In this example, prices did stall over time before continuing higher.
However, the weekly and monthly resistance targets kept prices in a con-
solidating pattern, as you can see from the daily chart in Figure 5.25. It is in-
teresting to note that the exact high was formed by a shooting star pattern.
The value in using and identifying these confluence levels is that a
trader/analyst/investor is given both elements for successful trading: price
objectives combined with a specific time period. It is up to the trader to
manage a trade or to identify the magnitude of the reversal. Not all out-
comes are the same, but the markets do react off these numbers; so that is
why we are looking to combine pivot point analysis with another dimension
of market analysis.
The second part of the trading equation using pivot points is combining
the idea of how to filter the numbers to help identify which support or re-
sistance numbers to use to determine market condition. Remember we cov-

c05.qxd 9/25/06 8:24 AM Page 155
Pivot Points 155
FIGURE 5.25
Used with permission of esignal.com.
ered the fact that in a bearish market condition, the actual pivot point
would act as resistance. Confluence, or the cluster of support or resistance
numbers, also works within a specific time period. For example, when the
actual pivot point lines up at or near the market direction number or mov-
ing average of the pivot point and a resistance target number, we should
study that specific price zone for signals that indicate a shift in momentum.
This is the part where we need to comprehend what the charts and price ac-
tion are revealing.
Candle patterns do just that in a clear visual manner. As you look at Fig-
ure 5.26, you will see that the exact high of the trading session on 1/20/2006
was formed by a doji. A confluence existed with the lining up of the daily
pivot point, the market direction numbers, and the R-1. The market never
even had the strength to test the resistance levels. By the end of the day, the
Dow fell another 100-plus points from the last price you see on this chart—
the low was 10673 that day. Once the low close doji signal occurred and the
shift in momentum occurred by making lower closing lows, a sharp sell-off
developed.
The September 2004 Active Trade Magazine published an article I
wrote and made it a cover story. It was on the power of pivot point conflu-

c05.qxd 9/25/06 8:24 AM Page 156
156 CANDLESTICK AND PIVOT POINT TRADING TRIGGERS
FIGURE 5.26
Used with permission of esignal.com.
ence and how calculating pivot points on more than one time frame can
help identify certain price levels that are likely to repel prices. The article
(p. 68) was titled “Pivot Points and Right Side Chart Analysis.” You may
have read that article or seen the issue—it was the one with President Bush
and Senator Kerry on the cover. The article’s focus was on not only entry
prices and risk management, but also profit objectives and how to trade
around the support and resistance numbers. What was most interesting
about that article was the fact that the confluence of daily, weekly, and
monthly numbers lined up near 1160 (see Table 5.5) and the exact high for
March 5, 2004, was 1163.50.
TABLE 5.5 Confluence
Time Frame Confluence Number
Monthly R-1 1161.50
Weekly R-2 1162.00
Daily R-2 1159.25

c05.qxd 9/25/06 8:24 AM Page 157
Pivot Points 157
The average price level derived from the confluence numbers was
1161.00. The high for the year took less than 15 minutes to form and was
made by a doji and a shooting star on a 5-minute chart, as Figure 5.27
shows. That high held for 11 months, until after the November elections.
The point to this example is that the power of confluence worked to repel
prices. The outcome can be different each time, meaning we don’t know
what the percentage of retracement of price reversal will be. The general
idea, however, is that as a trader you should respect the notion that the
market will at least pause and more than likely generate a significant trad-
ing opportunity.
The particular setup that initiated a sell signal was my signature low
close doji trigger, one of the patterns on which we go into detail in the next
few chapters! This pattern and the high close doji at or near pivot point sup-
port targets are the highest probability trade signals I use.
FIGURE 5.27
Used with permission of esignal.com.

c05.qxd 9/25/06 8:24 AM Page 158
158 CANDLESTICK AND PIVOT POINT TRADING TRIGGERS
SUMMARY
Remember that pivot point support and resistance levels are a great gauge
of what a potential turning point or a predicted range in a given time period
will be. The more time periods or confluence of target numbers that line up,
the higher is the probability that a strong market reaction will occur. There-
fore, it is important to raise your attention when prices reach these pre-
dicted price support and resistance numbers. If you apply proper risk and
trade management techniques, as will be covered in the next few chapters,
you should see a tremendous turnaround in your trading performance.

c06.qxd 9/25/06 8:28 AM Page 159
CHAPTER 6
Pivot Point Moving
Average System
T
he moving average is one of the most widely utilized indicators in
technical analysis because the moving average is easily identifiable
and easy to back-test. Many automated trading systems use moving
averages or some derivative of a moving average to generate buy and sell
signals. Moving averages are considered classic indicators and are very
popular with traders today. Most technicians view the moving average as a
way to signal a change in the direction of the trend, as well as a way to
smooth out the volatility of the market. In Chapter 2, we covered a key com-
ponent in understanding the concept of trend, which in essence gives you
the ability to understand the concept of momentum. Remember this: “In a
bullish environment, buying begets buying.” Higher closing highs bring
higher highs as momentum and assigned values (the closes) are justified.
The law of physics that states that “a body in motion tends to stay in motion
until a force or obstacle stops or changes that motion” applies in this sce-
nario because higher assigned values can induce more buying from existing
buyers and can attract new buyers. Once again, the opposite is true of a
bearish market: Lower closing lows bring lower lows as momentum and as-
signed values are justified. The lower assigned values induce more selling
by existing sellers and can attract new sellers into the market.
When prices have appreciated and all buyers have exhausted their re-
sources to add more long positions in a bull market, prices have reached
what is known as absolute value. Prices will more than likely consolidate
for a period of time before they change direction and reverse lower in
value. The opposite is true in a downtrending market. An important com-
159

c06.qxd 9/25/06 8:28 AM Page 160
160 CANDLESTICK AND PIVOT POINT TRADING TRIGGERS
ponent to remember is that price action typically moves from trend phase
to congestion and can either continue with the original trend or reverse the
trend. Momentum and the psychology of the perception of the value of a
given market in a given time period are what will move prices from a con-
solidation, or congestion phase, back to a trending condition.
DETERMINING TREND DIRECTION
Simply put, one way to determine the trend is by drawing trend lines. In
an uptrend, we should see a sequence of higher highs and higher lows, so
we would draw a line against the lows and extend it outward to forecast a
support level sometime in the future. In a downtrend, as the sequence of
events shows lower highs and lower lows, we would draw a line against the
top of the highs and extend it outward to help forecast a resistance point in
the future.
Another method used in determining trend line support and resistance
is through the use of moving averages. The most popular method of using a
moving average is to average the closing prices (sometimes referred to as
the settlement prices) of a defined number of sessions. The moving average
is a lagging indicator. The purpose of the moving average is to indicate the
beginning and the ending of a trend. Since the moving average follows the
market, the signals it generates occur after the trend has already changed.
It is argued that most traders (or about 70 percent) lose their money in the
markets. If the reason is that most traders focus on moving average values
that are predetermined by default settings in their charting software pack-
ages or if they use the media’s favorite 200-day moving average, it’s no won-
der that people lose. The majority are following the same indicator.
BEAT THE STREET
As Yogi said, “If you want to do better than the average bear, then you have
to think better than the average bear!” If you want to beat the Street, then
you need to think better than the Street—use a different set of values or un-
derstand how signals are generated. You do not want to follow and trade off
what everyone else is looking at; so when it comes to moving averages, you
want to look at a different set of conditions and time periods. Think for a
minute: If lots of traders are watching for trade signals on 10, 20, and 50 pe-
riods and if the statement holds true that the majority of traders lose, then
why do you want to trade based off signals on those moving averages? It
might serve you well to watch these indicators so you can see where others

c06.qxd 9/25/06 8:28 AM Page 161
Pivot Point Moving Average System 161
get in or out of trades, but certainly not to follow those, which would be the
same as succumbing to crowd mentality. Some traders and technical ana-
lysts use various ways to calculate moving averages, such as the simple, the
weighted, and the exponential. I prefer the simple moving average and a
different set of values for my moving average, namely the pivot point.
THE SIMPLE MOVING AVERAGE
The simple moving average (the arithmetic mean) is the most popular mov-
ing average used in technical analysis. The simple moving average is the
sum of the closing prices over a period of sessions divided by the number
of sessions. For example, a 10-day moving average would be the sum of the
past 10 days’ closing prices divided by 10. Each new day would drop the
first day’s closing price and add the newday’s closing price. As new data is
added to the calculation, old data is removed. By averaging the price data,
a smoother line is produced, and the trend is much easier to recognize. The
disadvantage of the simple moving average is that it only takes into ac-
count the time period of the sessions covered in the calculation and that it
gives equal weight to each day’s price.
In Chapters 4 and 5, we covered the pivot point formulas and the sig-
nificance of pivot points as support and resistance. As you will recall, the
pivot point calculation provides the mean (average) for the session’s trad-
ing range, or high, low, and close: (H + L + C)/3.
This moving average section discusses how the moving average helps
clarify the market’s price flow by extending price analysis over a certain pe-
riod of time. In this manner, moving averages can accentuate when a mar-
ket enters an extreme condition by how far it departs from the mean. Price
action either will move toward the moving average or will return to the
moving average to retest that level.
The “Market Direction” number that was shown in the Excel sheet in
Figure 5.8 is a combination of the use of price session information (pivot
point number) over a period of time (moving average). The market direc-
tion number utilizes cumulative data from the high, the low, and the close
for a session. This information provides a clear picture of the “average true
price” for that time period. The market direction number is then calculated
by taking the average pivot number from the past three periods. Any time
frame can be utilized to calculate the number. However, the longer the time
frame, the more significance the number will hold. To calculate the market
direction number, add three pivot points from the same session, and divide
the sum by three. The purpose of using the pivot point in the moving aver-
age calculation is that the pivot point will show the continuance of the
trend.

c06.qxd 9/25/06 8:28 AM Page 162
162 CANDLESTICK AND PIVOT POINT TRADING TRIGGERS
Pivot + Pivot + Pivot
Market Direction =
3
As stated previously, the market direction number, which is a three-pe-
riod pivot point moving average, can act as a support number in bullish
conditions and has a high degree of importance when one of the pivot point
calculations for the current session coincides with or is near that number.
The market direction number holds true as a resistance number in a bear
market condition. If another number coincides with the market direction
number, such as the actual pivot point or an R-1 (resistance level one)
number, then it would serve as the target high number for that specific time
period. Another way of using the three-period pivot point moving average
is as a point of reference or fair value. For example, when the market price
departs, or deviates, too far from the mean, then you can use the extreme
resistance or support number, such as R-2 or S-2 (support level two), or
the farthest target number of that direction, as a potential turning point.
When various time frames are incorporated into the analysis (daily,
weekly, and monthly), there is more certainty that the target price level can
generate the anticipated reaction. If the market gaps too far from the daily
pivot point moving average, use the monthly and/or weekly target support
and resistance numbers to help identify a targeted reversal support or re-
sistance point. Figure 6.1 shows a spot foreign exchange (forex) British
pound daily chart with the three-period pivot point moving average over-
laid on top of prices. Notice that as the market changes conditions from
bearish (downtrend) to bullish (uptrend), prices bounce off the moving av-
erage as a support line and then trade off the moving average as it acts as
a ceiling of resistance. If you notice the price action from November 15 to
November 25, you will see that the market entered a consolidating phase as
prices moved above and below the moving average. The moving average
went virtually in a flat line with a bias to an upsideslope. This was hinting
that prices were getting ready to change direction. When you watch the
moving average in relation to the underlying price action, sometimes you
can get clues as to the true market price direction using the pivot point
moving average. Due to the weighting of the high, low, and close com-
bined, the moving average factors in the typical price of that time period,
thus giving a better gauge of market value. If the close is closer to the high,
the average will be at a higher assigned value. Using the three-period pivot
point will help you filter out much of the market noise and will give you a
truer sense of the market’s fair value within the price range of the past
three trading periods.
At times, the slope, or angle, of the moving average can give you a clue
as to the market’s true strength or weakness, especially when combined

c06.qxd 9/25/06 8:28 AM Page 163
Pivot Point Moving Average System 163
FIGURE 6.1
Used with permission of esignal.com.
with candlestick charting. The slope helps filter out the noise, and you can
see if the market’s value is progressively appreciating or depreciating.
When a market goes from the trending phase into the consolidation phase,
it is the slope of the pivot point moving average that can help you identify
the potential price direction the market makes next from the consolidating
phase, such as if the market will make a continuation or a trend reversal
move. For added clarity, when combined with identifying a high-probabil-
ity bottom or top-forming candle, you have added confirmation of a poten-
tial move.
In Figure 6.2, the graph shows a representation of a pivot point moving
average in a declining trend phase. Then as prices consolidate as the pivot
point average measures the typical price rather than the close, we can de-
termine what the true market value is and which way prices tend to be
moving. Markets sometimes demonstrate extreme volatility at turning
points, and the moving average approach can help filter out the noise in-
flicted by wide price swings. These swings often lead to confusion or
worse—traders getting whipsawed, causing loss in trading equity.

c06.qxd 9/25/06 8:28 AM Page 164
164 CANDLESTICK AND PIVOT POINT TRADING TRIGGERS
Moving average
with a higher slope
indicates a bullish bias.
FIGURE 6.2
As the moving average slopes up, it indicates that the market values are
also tending to trade higher. Eventually, we see a trend reversal, which is
what the direction of the moving average indicated.
In Figure 6.3, let’s look at a five-minute chart on the Chicago Board of
Trade (CBOT) mini-Dow contract. Just to clarify, the minimum tick fluctu-
ation is a one-point move, and every point is worth $5. So the overall con-
tract value is $5 times the index. If the Dow is at 10500, the contract value
is $52,500. This may not make sense now, but as you read the book further,
you will understand what the low close doji sell signal is about and what the
specific rules are for entering on this pattern. For purposes of illustrating
what phase a market goes in and how the pivot point moving average can
help you follow a market, let’s look at the sequence of events:
• The market develops into a downtrend.
• At the bottom, a bullish reversal candle pattern forms.
• Prices start trading wildly, but the moving averages (M/As) are sloping
higher.
• The market reverses and then goes into a sideways channel or consol-
idating phase. (If you examine the pivot point moving averages, you
will see they were pointing higher while prices were in the congestion
phase.)
• Prices finally break out and continue the uptrend.

c06.qxd 9/25/06 8:28 AM Page 165
Pivot Point Moving Average System 165
FIGURE 6.3
Used with permission of esignal.com.
This chart was from 2/10/2006; prices went on to trade that day as high
as 10963. The moving averages did alert you to the internal strength, and the
price direction did continue higher—a pretty good method for getting a
clue to the market’s next move.
In Figure 6.4, we have the CBOT mini-Dow contract, which shows that
the market was coming out of the congestion, or consolidation, period in
late October. The three-period pivot point moving average was also flatlin-
ing with an upward slope in the direction of the moving average. Once the
market made a break for it by establishing the uptrend, the average helped
identify the trending condition. As the chart illustrates, the pivot point mov-
ing average actually hugs the market’s lows when in an uptrend and the
highs in a downtrend. It also helps to identify the conditional changes when
the market makes reversals.
This moving average approach works just as well for active day trading
markets, such as the e-mini–Standard & Poor’s (S&P) shown in the 5-
minute chart in Figure 6.5, as it does for swing or position traders. This
method can help active day traders to see and to confirm changes in price
conditions, such as when the market is in a consolidating period to trend-

c06.qxd 9/25/06 8:28 AM Page 166
166 CANDLESTICK AND PIVOT POINT TRADING TRIGGERS
FIGURE 6.4
Used with permission of esignal.com.
ing mode. Notice how the moving average acts as a support once the mar-
ket starts the breakout in the uptrend.
The three-period pivot point moving average works as a tool to confirm
triggers and exits by price action closing above or below the moving aver-
age pivot line. In Figure 6.6, we have a 15-minute chart on the spot forex
Japanese yen currency. As the market forms a bottom at 9:00 A.M., notice
how the moving average shows a cup formation and that the price of the
market closes above the moving average. This gives us a clue that the mar-
ket is starting to change from a bearish trend condition to a consolidating
phase and that the market is starting to move into a reversal of the current
trending condition. As the market starts to establish higher highs and
higher lows, it also is closing above prior highs and, most important, clos-
ing above the three-period pivot point moving average. Now the average
starts to act as a support target until prices reach the top, and the moving
average starts to flatline again as prices go into another consolidating
phase. The Japanese yen chart provides a good example of a high close
hammer trigger, confirmed by the price closing above the moving average
pivot line.

c06.qxd 9/25/06 8:28 AM Page 167
Pivot Point Moving Average System 167
FIGURE 6.5
Used with permission of esignal.com.
TRADING TRIGGER STRATEGY
• After a Downtrend.If the price closes above the moving average (M/A)
and above the prior time period’s highs, with a sequence of higher highs
and higher lows, enter a long position, as the uptrend is now confirmed.
You will want the moving average to have formed a flat line or a higher-
sloping angle. Place a stop below the lowest low point.
Closing Price > M/A = Go long or exit shorts
• After an Uptrend. If the price closes below the moving average and
below the prior time period’s lows, with a sequence of lower highs and
lower lows, enter a short position, as the downtrend is now confirmed.
You will want the moving average to have formed a flat line or a lower-
sloping angle. Place a stop above the highest high point.
Closing Price < M/A = Go short or exit longs
When trading based off the market direction number or three-period
pivot point moving average, there is no need to wait for the value of the

c06.qxd 9/25/06 8:28 AM Page 168
168 CANDLESTICK AND PIVOT POINT TRADING TRIGGERS
FIGURE 6.6
Used with permission of esignal.com.
moving average to start rising or falling to determine the trigger to enter the
market. A close above the moving average will trigger a long position, and
a close below the moving average will trigger a short position. However,
you want to see the moving average values follow the direction of the price
move in the desired trade.
CONDITIONAL OPTIMIZED MOVING
AVERAGE SYSTEM
The Conditional Optimized Moving Average System™ (COMAS) incor-
porates the pivot point moving average approach with another variable.
This method combines two moving averages. The resulting system provides
a powerful crossover trigger to enter the market as well as an indicator of
the move’s strength with the slope and the difference, or separation, of the
moving average lines.
A crossover provides both the entry and the exit signals, in addition to
a set of rules or conditions. This system works on any time frame, five min-

c06.qxd 9/25/06 8:28 AM Page 169
Pivot Point Moving Average System 169
utes and greater, and in any high-volume market. It is an excellent short-
term trading method for highly liquid markets such as forex, for certain fu-
tures markets, and for stocks that have ample trading volume. One
variationof what I use in my trading library with the Genesis Software and
teach in our Trading Triggers University is the one-period pivot point with
the three-period moving average of the pivot point. There are other combi-
nations you can use, such as a five-period pivot point moving average of the
pivot point with a two-period simple moving average of a close. I test vari-
ous time periods and variables for my parameter settings because of the
various conditions each market has. After all, bonds move differently than
the e-mini–Standard &Poor’s (S&P) 500, the mini-Dow, the Russell, or the
Nadsdaq does. You may agree that forex currencies move differently than
individual stocks. The bottom line is this: I use the two moving average val-
ues to help me identify a shift in momentum of the market; and then as the
conditions change, such as a close above or below the values of both mov-
ing averages, I use the pivot point filtering method to help me identify a po-
tential profit target.
For the purposes of this book, let me show you how to integrate the
pivot point with the three-period moving average of the pivot point. In
Chapter 5, I disclosed how to filter the pivot support and resistance levels
by labeling the market condition as neutral, bullish, or bearish. You can also
chart and track the conditional change of the market by plotting the direc-
tional change in the two moving average settings. Figure 6.7 shows both
moving average values declining; but as the pivot point crosses above the
three-period moving averages, it alerts us that the internal market condition
is changing to bullish. Once both moving averages start to point up and the
pivot point is above the three-period pivot point average the market condi-
tion confirms we are in a bullish trend. As a general rule, a trader would
look to buy from an area of support in a market that is trending upward
(buy pullbacks).
Figure 6.8 shows a five-minute chart on the e-mini–S&P 500 futures. In
the preopen outcry session around 8:00 A.M. (yes, you can trade preopen
outcry session), notice that the market is trading sideways and that the
moving average values are as well. Then by 8:30 A.M., the market turns
lower and goes into a congestion phase trading sideways until 9:45 A.M. The
tall white candle closes above both moving average values and above the
prior time period’s high (which was a hammer pattern). As the market
starts to move in a bullish trend mode, focus on the action of the moving av-
erages in relation to prices. The pivot point is above the three-period mov-
ing average pivot point; and there are higher highs, higher lows, and higher
closing values above both moving averages and past highs. This series of
conditions continued until after the top was formed by a shooting star at
10:15 A.M. The trigger to go long occurred after the breakout of the sideways

c06.qxd 9/25/06 8:28 AM Page 170
170 CANDLESTICK AND PIVOT POINT TRADING TRIGGERS
FIGURE 6.7
FIGURE 6.8
Used with permission of esignal.com.

c06.qxd 9/25/06 8:28 AM Page 171
Pivot Point Moving Average System 171
range at 1282.25 and after the trigger to exit the trade was initiated at 1288.
This was a 5.75-point gain per contract. The focus is that prices traded
above both moving average values and that the three-period pivot point
moving average acted as support all the way up. Both moving averages
were moving in tandem with each other, and the slope of both averages was
pointing in the direction of the trend.
TRADING TIPS
This is an important point, so let me reiterate—What helps indicate the
strength of a trend when you use two or more sets of values for your mov-
ing averages are:
• The slopes of the moving averages are both pointing in the direction of
the trend.
• The moving averages have a good degree of separation or are equidis-
tant from each other, which indicates a steady trending condition.
• The moving averages are trending in tangent or are parallel with each
other, rather than one significantly outpacing the other.
• If the shorter-term moving average separates or moves too far away
from the longer-term moving average, then there is a potential for an
overbought condition. Traders should start looking to liquidate half of
their positions.
• When a crossover occurs, traders should liquidate the entire position
We have not yet covered candle patterns, an integrating component of
this trading method. Most traders have a basic understanding of candle pat-
terns, and I do go over the more frequent and recurring ones. By now you
may have seen dojis, shooting stars at tops, and hammers at bottoms in this
first section of the book. There is a good reason for that, which we will
cover. Right now, let’s focus on the moving average components.
Figure 6.9 is a 5-minute chart on the CBOT mini-Dow looking at the
same time period as the e-mini–S&P in Figure 6.8. Notice the coincidence
factor as both markets form similar patterns at the same precise moment. I
bring up this point because it is important that as a day trader you follow
like or similar markets to see if there is confirmation throughout the sector.
Besides, if one market rallies, it is likely that the other market will rally as
well. All 30 stocks in the Dow are traded in the S&P 500. Therefore, they
can be considered like, or markets that will trade in tandem with each
other. One market may develop a specific pattern that is more pronounced
than a pattern in the other market, and you can trade one market based on

c06.qxd 9/25/06 8:28 AM Page 172
172 CANDLESTICK AND PIVOT POINT TRADING TRIGGERS
FIGURE 6.9
Used with permission of esignal.com.
a signal from the other. Notice in Figure 6.9 that the Dow made a lower low
on that day and was formed by what I call the jackhammer pattern, which
I will cover later.
Watch the relationship of the moving averages. Once the long white
candle formed after the hammer, which is the candle that made the lowest
low point in the market, the tall white candle closed above both moving av-
erage values and above the hammer candle’s high. As prices started to
move in a bullish trend, focus on the action of the moving averages in rela-
tion to prices. The pivot point is above the three-period moving average
pivot point; prices form a sequence of higher highs, higher lows, and higher
closing values above both moving averages and the prior time period’s
highs. This series of conditions continued until after the top was formed by
a shooting star around 10:15 A.M. in conjunction with the mini-S&P. The
trigger to enter a long occurred at 10845 until the first lower closing low, or
conditional change, occurred when prices closed below prior sessions’
lows and below the moving averages at 10895—a nice clean 50-point trade
in the mini-Dow, or $250 per contract in less than 50 minutes.
In Figure 6.10, let’s go over what the 15-minute chart on the spot forex

c06.qxd 9/25/06 8:28 AM Page 173
Pivot Point Moving Average System 173
FIGURE 6.10
Used with permission of esignal.com.
yen looks like with the COMAS method. If you look at the candle before 10
A.M., you will see the moving average values actually crossed over first, be-
fore the long white candle formed after 10 A.M. This gives an early warning
and indicates that there is a bullish bias. Keep in mind that it happened be-
fore the price action confirmed a bullish trend with the sequence of higher
highs, higher lows, and higher closing highs. This feature allows you to
have an early warning system in place that helps spot directional trend
changes. Look at Figure 6.11 with the daily chart on the spot forex British
pound. As you can see, the moving average crossover that occured on No-
vember 25 foretold of the bullish trend reversal that carries the market
from the 1.71 level all the way up to the 1.77 area. In that trend run, you will
see how the moving averages both lined up and acted as support. By the
time December 15 rolled around, see how the moving averages cross back
down, giving you an early warning that the trend was in jeopardy; and sure
enough, a bearish reversal occurred. From the peak made in December, we
see that the market declined, which triggered a sell signal when the pivot
point crossed beneath the three-period moving average. That not only indi-
cated a major bearish reversal but also showed that the three-period pivot

c06.qxd 9/25/06 8:28 AM Page 174
174 CANDLESTICK AND PIVOT POINT TRADING TRIGGERS
FIGURE 6.11
Used with permission of esignal.com.
point acted as a resistance line all the way down as prices kept in the bear-
ish sequence of lower highs, lower lows, and lower closing lows. There is
one more element to that sequence, which is that a dark candle represents
the market closes below each time period’s open. Keep that in mind when
we go over candle patterns in Chapter 7.
As illustrated in Figure 6.12, the COMAS method can work in helping to
determine changes in market conditions from a consolidating phase to a
bullish uptrending phase and then back to a downtrending, or bearish, con-
dition phase. This graph illustrates a bearish conditional change in the mar-
ket once the pivot point crosses beneath the three-period moving average
pivot point. Once you have identified that a bearish condition exists, then
you can trigger a short position. As a general rule, a trader should look to
sellfrom an area of resistance in a market that is trending to the downside;
that is, sell rallies. A trader wll see more profits in selling rallies than in buy-
ing breaks in declining or bearish trending markets.
In trading, as in life, timing is everything. There is nothing more frus-
trating to a trader than to correctly analyze the market, correctly predict
the direction of the trend, get stopped out due to a premature entry, and

c06.qxd 9/25/06 8:28 AM Page 175
Pivot Point Moving Average System 175
FIGURE 6.12
then watch the market move in the originally predicted direction. As we all
determine early in our trading careers, being correct about the direction of
the trend is not enough. We must also be able to anticipate when the mar-
ket is setting up to trigger an appropriate entry into the market. The pivot
point combined with a moving average of the pivot point is one method that
can help you successfully identify when a conditional change may occur in
the market.
Let’s look at Figure 6.13, which is a 15-minute chart on the spot forex
British pound. Notice the period after the long white candle at approxi-
mately 9:00 A.M.—prices go in a sideways mode or consolidation phase.
The moving averages also flatline with a bias toward a downward slope.
The crossover occurs, followed by a lower closing low, a lower high, and a
lower low; and the close is below the open. In addition, the price is closing
beneath both moving averages; and, most important, the three-period pivot
point moving average acts as resistance, all the way down, until the market
moves into a consolidating phase.
The concept of incorporating pivot point analysis with a moving aver-
age approach will give you a testable, mechanical, systematic approach to
trading. In order to execute a trade, you need to have specific elements
occur. Knowledge of these elements will arm you with critical information
that can help provide you with protection from overtrading and from suf-
fering from emotional pitfalls.

c06.qxd 9/25/06 8:28 AM Page 176
176 CANDLESTICK AND PIVOT POINT TRADING TRIGGERS
FIGURE 6.13
Used with permission of esignal.com.
1. In order to execute a trade, you need to see a change in market direc-
tion and commitment from the market to illustrate a change in market
direction by closing above or below the moving averages.
2. You need to follow some simple rules, such as take buy signals at sup-
port and take sell signals at resistance.
The importance of this trading method is that you must be able to apply
the techniques on a consistent basis that allows you to make decisions in a
mechanical and nonemotional way. A common mistake that traders make
is that they do not test a strategy to make a logical determination about
whether the strategy is viable for their trading style. Many traders adopt a
new strategy, trade with it immediately, and start tweaking different com-
ponents of the strategy. Then they decide that there is no merit to the strat-
egy, since it is not profitable, and begin looking for a different strategy. A
much better approach is to establish a defined set of trading rules and test
those rules until an outcome is determined based on a reasonable number
of trades. Patienceto wait for triggers and not act on the anticipation of an
outcome and disciplineto follow through with that trigger are a must if you
are to be successful. These character traits can be learned and developed

c06.qxd 9/25/06 8:28 AM Page 177
Pivot Point Moving Average System 177
by implementing this methodology. It is what I teach students and other
highly successful professional traders.
When the price target has been met and the trigger has presented itself,
enter the trade without hesitation. Do not think about the entry; this is a
mechanical process. You have already done your homework, and you have
satisfied your criteria. Your system is in place, and this is part of the system.
If you do not place the trade when the trigger executes and confirms, you
are not trading according to your plan. Successful traders have the courage
to act and act promptly. It is important to recognize the immediate envi-
ronment or market condition. Is it up, down, or sideways? After a trend is
established, let’s say a bullish trend, it should consist of higher highs and
higher lows; each period should close above the open, and we should see
higher closing highs. The pivot point moving average should help verify
this condition. In a bearish trend, we would want to see lower highs and
lower lows; each period should close below the open of each period. Under
these circumstances, the pivot point moving average should confirm this
market condition as well.
Traders need to identify themselves, which will help them know the
time frame to follow in a trending market. Are you a day trader? Are you a
swing trader who may be in a position that lasts two to five days? Or are
you a position trader? Once you acknowledge what your time objective is,
you can narrow down your goals and your expectations for the trade. For
example, when I am day trading, I will generally be able to identify what the
average range for a day is; I will expect that if I miss 20 percent of the bot-
tom and 20 percent of the top, while waiting for a moving average crossover
signal, then I can expect to only capture 60 percent of the average daily
range. Perhaps this can be achieved only once or twice a day.
HOW DO I START?
First, I need to structure my computer and my charts to a format that is
conducive to day trading. For stock index contracts, I watch two “like” or
“tandem” markets in two time periods. These are the CBOT mini-Dow and
the e-mini–S&P. Lately, due to client requests, I have been alerted to trad-
ing the Russell 2000 and the German stock index Deutscher AktienIndex,
known as the DAX. The DAX, an index portfolio of 30 German blue-chip
stocks, opens at 3 A.M.(ET) and closes at 11 A.M.(ET). (On a side note, as
of October 2006, the DAX, based in Frankfurt, Germany, will start accept-
ing non-German companies. In order to qualify for the Index, foreign com-
panies must conduct their operations in Germany.) The DAX 30 actually
tracks close to moves in the S&P 500 futures. In spot forex, I use the euro
and a like market, such as the British pound and the yen.

c06.qxd 9/25/06 8:28 AM Page 178
178 CANDLESTICK AND PIVOT POINT TRADING TRIGGERS
For day trading, I use the 5- and 15-minute time periods. All of my chart
screens look the same: The 5-minute e-mini–S&P and the mini-Dow are on
the top, and the 15-minute S&P and mini-Dow are on the bottom. All my
chart pages are set up this way; therefore, all chart pages are synchronized
so that I do not watch different time periods when switching from one
screen to another—I have a uniform setting.
• I find the most reliable day trade signals are confirmed in the 15-minute
time frame and triggered in the 5-minute time period as well.
• When both time frames are in sync with each other and when like mar-
kets have similar signals, this generates a higher probability trigger.
As I stated earlier, the parameters I use in this book are a variation of
what is programmed in my proprietary library with Genesis Software. This
is a system that generates buy and sell signals based on the principles we
have gone over in the book so far. More information on this software can be
found on my web site at www.nationalfutures.com
Figure 6.14 illustrates how I line up the e-mini–S&P with the mini-Dow
side by side with the corresponding time periods of 5 minutes at the top and
15 minutes at the bottom. Stock and forex charts are lined up the same way.
The greatest feature with this software is that it highlights a sell signal
with a red triangle pointing down, and it signals a buy trigger with a green
triangle pointing up. These coincide against resistance levels to sell and
support levels to buy. As you can see, the sell signals when aligned against
the pivot point resistance numbers offer a fantastic visual confirmation
based on my predefined strategies; therefore, it will help eliminate the emo-
tional element and impatience of acting on anticipation rather than on a
true signal.
All the signals and methods covered in this book can be applied with
most charting packages. In fact, 26 years ago, I was calculating the pivot
point support and resistance numbers with a handheld calculator. The pivot
point calculator is available on my web site. In addition, this book comes
with a CD (compact disc) that has a pivot point calculator as well. All that
needs to be done is to input the data for the high, the low, and the close; and
the R-2 down to the S-2 numbers will be calculated for you. It is very easy
to use; all you need are the prices for stocks, futures, or forex markets for
any time frame. Figure 6.15 shows the monthly price range for Dell Inc.,
which I will use to demonstrate how powerful this method of market analy-
sis is when combined with certain candlestick patterns.
Figure 6.16 is Dell with the monthly and weekly pivot support targets
indicating a possible bottom. Using the higher time frames, such as the
monthly figures, alerted me to a major bottom. All I then needed to do was

c06.qxd 9/25/06 8:28 AM Page 179
Pivot Point Moving Average System 179
FIGURE 6.14
Used with permission of www.GenesisFT.com.
to look and wait for the reversal trigger, which came when the market made
a high close doji pattern.
The next few chapters will really bring home the message of the value
of incorporating pivot points and candlestick patterns. Using the pivot
point as a moving average in addition to using the pivot point calculations
to identify target ranges will certainly make you a more prepared trader.
This method has captured the attention of many experts who are now
using it; and its accuracy at predicting turning points in the market con-
stantly amazes me. Believe me, many people are fascinated by this concept.
In December 2002, Futures Magazinefirst published an article I wrote on
the subject, “Combining Cycles and Pivot Points to Predict Market Values”
(p. 38), and has published several other articles of mine. Perry Kaufman, the
famous technician and author, in the fourth edition of his nearly 1,200-page

c06.qxd 9/25/06 8:28 AM Page 180
180 CANDLESTICK AND PIVOT POINT TRADING TRIGGERS
FIGURE 6.15
Used with permission of www.nationalfutures.com.

c06.qxd 9/25/06 8:28 AM Page 181
Pivot Point Moving Average System 181
FIGURE 6.16
RealTick graphics used with permission of Townsend Analytics, Ltd.
New Trading Systems and Methods (Wiley, 2005) quoted my work from
such magazine articles. Many other educators have come to listen to me
teach, have taught my ideas, and have seen improvement in their students.
I have had the opportunity to share my work and research with others, and
I would like to share it with you. These trading ideas are not new, and they
have stood the test of time.
Here is an excerpt from an online interview I had in February 2003 (see
www.nationalfutures.com). The concepts I was talking about then pretty
much cover what we have gone over so far and will continue to cover in the
following chapters. The difference is that I am going over in detail what the
specific signals, settings, and rules are for the trading triggers.
Q:How long have you been involved in the markets?
A:I started in the business back in 1979 as a runner on the floor of the
Chicago Mercantile Exchange [CME]. I then worked for George and Carrie
Lane, the innovator and premier educator for the stochastics oscillator.
Back then, we looked for day trading opportunities in agricultural com-
modities, bonds, and foreign currencies. The best markets that we used

c06.qxd 9/25/06 8:28 AM Page 182
182 CANDLESTICK AND PIVOT POINT TRADING TRIGGERS
specifically for quick day trading were in the Swiss franc and the German
deutsche mark. Floor traders used these numbers and kept them to them-
selves as a secret formula for their day trading numbers. These are known
as the pivot point calculations. I started incorporating them in my trading
approach back in 1984 and have been using them ever since.
Q:How do you calculate pivot points?
A: I use the traditional formula. To determine current support/resis-
tance levels, the first step is to find the pivot point [PP] number: PP = (H +
L + C) divided by 3
The first resistance level (R-1) = (PP ×2) – L
The second resistance level (R-2) = PP + H – L
The first support level (S-1) = (PP ×2) – H
The second support level (S-2) = PP – H + L
Q:What time frames do you apply to calculate the pivot points?
A: I find it extremely important to use multiple time frames in my re-
search and analysis. For those who are familiar with the “numbers” from
the pivot point calculations, the idea of applying them from any time period
other than the prior day’s session may make little or no sense. However, I
apply the daily, weekly, and even monthly target numbers and incorporate
these in my traders “tool box.” Often traders will comment, “If I am a day
trader, why would I want to be concerned with a monthly or a weekly mar-
ket outlook?” Consider that in every month, there will be a high and a low,
and the close will be somewhere in between. In one week, a high or a low
will be established; and in one day of the week, the market will form that
point of interest. More often than not, in an hour or so, trades will take
place that will establish that high and subsequently that low!
Q:What are the various time periods in forex markets from which you
take the data to calculate the numbers?
A: For the daily numbers, I take the New York Bank settlement. For
weekly numbers, I use the data beginning from the open on Sunday night to
the close on Friday afternoon. Monthly numbers are calculated by calendar
periods.
Q: What is the main purpose for using the pivot points, and how can
traders use them?
A:One popular application of the pivot point concept is to go long or
cover any short positions at either of the two support levels or to go short
or sell at the projected resistance levels. Knowing these fixed price levels
gives the trader unambiguous points to trade off, to enter, or to exit the
market or, more important at times, where not to enter a position. For ex-
ample, you should not buy right at either of the resistance levels. These lev-
els act as boundaries that can turn back price advances or declines, at least
on the first attempt. Another technique is to trade the breakout of the first
support or resistance levels. If prices do break through the S-1 or R-1 level,

c06.qxd 9/25/06 8:28 AM Page 183
Pivot Point Moving Average System 183
traders have a new target at the R-2 or S-2 level to take profits. The benefits
of using the both short- and longer-term pivot points for a short-term day
trader are numerous: They give a trader a better edge due to the ability to
work with predetermined price levels, which lead to precise entry and stop-
loss points, all of which give the trader the additional edge in the quest for
bigger profits.
Q:You use different technical tools in your daily videos. On which ones
do you put more trust or emphasis?
A:Great question! I use stochastics as an overbought/oversold indica-
tor, and I use it to help me determine divergence and convergence signals.
I use three-period variable moving averages to help keep me focused on the
trend. Moving averages also help me identify potential turning points when
the short-term average crosses over or below the longer-term average.
Q:You use candle charts over bar charts. Why is that?
A: Each candle has different characteristics that represent the differ-
ence, or the distance, between the high, the low, the open, and the close.
These characteristics use colors to differentiate the relationship between
the open and the close, referred to as the real body. Candlestick charting
acts as an immediate way to illustrate and to help identify the current mar-
ket’s environment and the current time frame’s acceptance or rejection of
a specific support or resistance level in a clear visual manner. If, for exam-
ple, on a given trading session, prices move higher from the opening price,
establish the high, and then fall, the distance formed from those points of
interest is called the “shadow.”
Candle charts give me color and depth, which help me almost immedi-
ately determine where current prices are in relation to past price levels.
Candlestick charting techniques can be used from data for whatever time
period you are looking at: hourly, daily, weekly, or monthly. There are 60 to
70 different classifications of named candlestick patterns—from one on up
to several candle components. They can signal reversal, stalled, and con-
tinuations of a market’s price move. Day traders want to focus on a small
arsenal of the more consistent and reliable reoccurring formations. Several
patterns that a trader wants to home in on and recognize are the more pow-
erful reversal formations at tops and bottoms of price ranges.
Q:How do candlesticks help you in your trading?
A: My trading approach incorporates time-tested techniques but uses
the aid of candlestick charts, which help me identify the true condition of
the markets. If you believe market prices are simply the reflection of human
emotion on perceived current valueand focus on what the market is doing,
rather than on what the market might do, then you are ahead of the crowd
in understand how markets function. With that understanding, you will
then be able to have the confidence to act swiftly and to execute or trigger
into a trade or position in the market.

c06.qxd 9/25/06 8:28 AM Page 184
184 CANDLESTICK AND PIVOT POINT TRADING TRIGGERS
Q:Which do you favor more—fundamental or technical analysis?
A:I watch what reports are coming out, as some can generate wild gy-
rations (e.g., monthly unemployment report). I rely heavily on technical
analysis. After all, it is the purest and most objective study of price action.
It is used for expedience. You can review one, five, ten, or even twenty
charts in a matter of seconds or minutes to get a quick overview of the gen-
eral trends. How long would it take to study the fundamental reports on the
economy or interest rates in various countries to develop an opinion to buy
or sell a foreign currency? That process could take hours, days, or even
weeks to figure out. Specific chart patterns and price actions have a high
degree of repetition. They are not 100 percent accurate; however, they do
have a high percentage of reoccurrences. Success comes in the simple form
of managing risk when applying a systematic method to these principles
and being able to quickly identify when and why a particular pattern fails.
Q:You learned that certain candle patterns developed near these pivot
points. Which ones do you look for near support or resistance levels?
A: Top reversal or bearish, such as dojis, bearish haramis, harami
crosses, dark cloud covers, and evening star formations. And for bottom re-
versal or bullish candle patterns, I look for bullish haramis, harami crosses,
bullish piercing patterns, bullish engulfing patterns, or, my favorite, a rare
occurring pattern called a morning doji star.
Q:How significant are doji patterns?
A:Extremely significant, especially if you know what to look for. There
are specific criteria that dojis need to meet; but if you know what these are,
they can be very powerful in helping your trading decisions. Doji forma-
tions help confirm reversals. There are different names and nuances asso-
ciated with certain dojis. Dojis indicate indecision, the market ends or
closes, where it began or opened. Dojis signify that confidence is lost from
buyers or sellers after the open as the market made a lot of intraday noise
as the range during the day was established. In a bullish or bearish trending
market, indecision is the last thing you want to see. Strong rejection or fail-
ure from the high and/or the low is a significant telltale sign that changes
are coming.
Q:What other considerations can you share with us regarding dojis?
A:In a strong uptrending market, usually the market will close near a
high, as larger capitalized traders will hold positions overnight. If the large
money traders are not confident the market will move higher in price, then
usually the market closes back near the open. I find it uncanny how many
times dojis form at or very close to the actual pivot point calculated support
or resistance numbers. That is what helps me set up my trades; it is the re-
lation of the next candle’s close after a doji that triggers my entries, espe-
cially if they are lined up at the pivot points.
Q:What is the shortest time frame that you use for charting?

c06.qxd 9/25/06 8:28 AM Page 185
Pivot Point Moving Average System 185
A:Five minutes.
Q:What other time frames do you track?
A:Besides monthly, weekly, and daily charts, I use the 5-, the 15-, and
the 30-minute and even the 60-minute for overnight trend trading.
Q:What is your favorite or most reliable time frame?
A: For day trading, the 5- and 15-minute are equally important; so I
watch both.
Q:Do you just use pivot points, or do you use other methods for fore-
casting support and resistance levels?
A:In my book A Complete Guide to Technical Trading Tactics: How
to Profit Using Pivot Points, Candlesticks, and Other Indicators, I demon-
strate many powerful ways to anticipate support and resistance levels, in-
cluding Fibonacci retracement, Fibonacci extensions, and projection
methods. In fact, in my trading course, I teach specific trade setups and
confirm signals to trigger or execute trades, how to manage a trade, and
how to know when to exit or even reverse a position.
Q:What signals or rules do you follow for a trading trigger?
A:Without giving away too many of my trade secrets, there is one that
can be found in my advanced trading course—a special trading setup that I
look for in a bullish setup.
• When the market approaches a key pivot point, buy on the close or
on the next open once a new closing high is made above the previ-
ous bullish reversal candle pattern or a doji.
• Place your initial risk-management stop below the low of the lowest
low point of the bullish candle pattern on a stop-close-only basis.
• Exit the trade on the close or on the first open of a candle that
makes a lower low after a prolonged uptrend, especially if it is near
a pivot line.
• One can use a “filter,” or a back-up process, to confirm the buy sig-
nal against a major pivot point number, such as a bullish conver-
gence stochastic pattern.
Remember, a bullish candle pattern can be a harami, a harami doji
cross, a bullish piercing pattern, a bullish engulfing pattern, a doji, or a
morning doji star.
Q:Tell us about this course and book you have mentioned?
A: The book was published by John Wiley and Sons in May of 2004. I
put the course together based on several seminars I conducted, one of
which was at the Chicago Board of Trade back in May 2003 and then again
in December 2004. I had a huge response from folks who could not attend
but were impressed with my methods. I offer it on my web site, which is
www.nationalfutures.com. Both the book and the course are available on
my site, and I do get asked to autograph and add a personal message when
these are prepurchased from my web site.

c06.qxd 9/25/06 8:28 AM Page 186

c07.qxd 9/25/06 8:30 AM Page 187
CHAPTER 7
Candle Charts and
Top Reversal
Patterns
C
andlestick charting is an extremely pronounced and effective
method for tracking and examining the four most important price
points: the open, the high, the low, and the close. Using candlestick
charting helps me visually to better compare current price activity in rela-
tion to past price points of interest. The advantage of using candlestick
charting in place of bar charting is that you can use the same techniques
and analysis that you do with bar charts and have the diversity and unique
signals that candlesticks generate. As you learn this method of charting,
you will come to see how it is a great barometer of human emotion, namely,
fear and greed.
In addition, this is a simple, yet certainly more specialized format of
charting. It has gained in popularity in the United States and is currently
followed by more and more analysts. My first book covered most of
the top formations, and I want to review what I believe are the more fre-
quent and reliable patterns. This chapter will show some statistical evi-
dence that there are certain patterns that develop over and over again.
Candlestick charting is extremely easy to learn; and once you remember
the sequence of events that form a trending market condition, the candles
will certainly be your best tool in spotting market reversals at tops
and bottoms. Having that information will certainly stack the odds in
your favor for making money consistently in the markets as an indepen-
dent trader.
187

c07.qxd 9/25/06 8:30 AM Page 188
188 CANDLESTICK AND PIVOT POINT TRADING TRIGGERS
CANDLESTICK CHARTING
Candlestick charting gives a detailed depiction of a price graph with almost
a three-dimensional effect. What stands out most is that a chartist can see
patterns more clearly and distinctly than with other types of charts. There
are over 60 candle patterns that form to create certain setups. This book
will focus on only a few select patterns and, what matters most, the triggers
that initiate a call to action.
If you are not familiar with candlestick formations, I am going over the
foundation of how to construct a candle and what it represents. If you wish
to become an expert at each of the patterns, several authors have written
great books on the subject. One is Steve Nison, who introduced the West-
ern world to candles. (In my first book, on page 44, I wrote about how he
discovered candles.) Others are Steve Bigalow and Greg Morris.
For the expert, this section will be a great review. Since each market
has a different trading characteristic, such as volatility or price moves, cer-
tain candlestick patterns vary and may occur more or less frequently. Each
candlestick pictured has a different characteristic that represents the dif-
ference or the distance between the high, the low, the open, and the close.
Candlestick charting techniques can be used from data for whatever time
period you use: hourly, daily, weekly, or monthly. Candlestick charts lend
themselves to pattern recognition and trendline support, resistance, and
channel lines. Candles also help to corroborate other forms of technical
analysis, especially pivot point analysis.
I want to explain the basics, and then I want to show you specific pat-
terns so you can see for yourself how to utilize them. I will also show a few
examples of the more popular named candle formations. Moreover, I will
explain the psychology of what is behind creating the pattern as it relates to
the open, the high, the low, and the close of a given time period. Armed with
the knowledge of which patterns have a higher frequency of occurring and
with the understanding of what they symbolize, you should be able to trade
the markets from recognizing them; and when patterns do develop, you
should be able to instinctively act on the signals, thereby increasing your
ability to make money as a trader.
The components of a candlestick are derived from the open, the high,
the low, and the close. In Figure 7.1, we see a dark candle (in a color chart-
ing software package, it would be a red candle). This signifies that this par-
ticular time period’s close is below the open. It does not indicate whether
the market closed higher or lower than the previous time period did. The
computer code for this sequence would be C < O—the close is less than the
open. We can also assign a negative (–) value or reading to help determine
the relative strength of a trend.
In Figure 7.2, the white, or hollow, candle signifies that the concluded

c07.qxd 9/25/06 8:30 AM Page 189
Candle Charts and Top Reversal Patterns 189
FIGURE 7.1 Selling or Short FIGURE 7.2 Buying or Long
time period shows that the close is above the open (in a charting software
package, you would universally see this as a green candle). Keep in mind
that you can adjust almost any parameter in any software package to your
liking. Therefore, you may want the candle to be white. The point is that the
color of a “lower close than open” candle should be different from the color
of the “higher close than open” candle. The computer code for this se-
quence would be C > O—the close is greater than the open. We can also as-
sign a positive (+) value or reading to help determine the relative strength
of a trend by how many more positive, or “higher close than open,” candles
exist.
The three main components of candle charts that we need to identify are:
1. Relationship between Open and Close (Candle Bodies).With the real
candle body colored and representing a negative or a positive reading,
we can see what is dominating the market.
In uptrends, or bullish market conditions, we see buying come in
on the open; and as we learned from the stochastics indicator, the mar-
ket should settle closer to the highs. It should also close above the
open; and that is why in bullish market conditions, we see hollow,
white, or green candles. This is why I assign it a positive (+) reading.
How much the bulls are dominating the market is reflected by the
length or the distance between the open and the close. If the market
opens on the low and has a large range where it closes at the high of the
session, that signifies that the bulls are in strong control. However, if
the market has a wide-range session and the market price closes back

c07.qxd 9/25/06 8:30 AM Page 190
190 CANDLESTICK AND PIVOT POINT TRADING TRIGGERS
near where it opened—say, in the middle of the range—that is not a
sign that bulls dominate the market for that particular time period.
In a bearish market condition, or a strong downtrend, we would
see dark- or red-colored real body candles. This represents sellers en-
tering the market on the open and dominating the session right into the
close of that time period. If the market opens on the high and prices de-
cline where the close is at or near the low, this shows that the bears are
firmly in control. This is why I assign a negative (–) reading. The dis-
tance factors between the open and the close are illustrated in a much
more defined way in candle charts than in bar charts due to the shape
and color coordination of the candles.
2. Shadows and Correlations to Candle Body. The distance of a low
and/or a high in relation to the real body as created by the open and the
close can really illustrate the market’s denial of a support or a resis-
tance level. Long shadows, tails, or wicks, as they are called, that form
after a long downtrend indicate a potential that the trend has exhausted
itself and that demand is increasing or supply is dwindling. Shadows,
tails, or wicks formed at the tops of real bodies, especially after a long
price advance, indicate that demand is drying up and supply is increas-
ing. The overall size of shadows is important to watch in relation to a
real body and can be easily identified.
3. Size or Length of the Overall Candle. Now this is one that is hard to
miss using the color-coded method of candle charts. A long candle that
opens at the bottom and closes at the high, which would be an abnor-
mal occurrence, has significant meaning. After a long downtrend, see-
ing this formation indicates that a major trend reversal is taking place.
After a long uptrend, seeing an unusually long candle that closes above
the open (a positive value) would indicate that an exhaustion or blow-
off-top condition may exist.
The reverse is true in down trades. After a long price decline, a tall
red- or dark-colored candle, which represents the market close below
the open (a negative assigned value), may indicate that a capitulation
or an exhaustion bottom has formed. After a long uptrend or price ad-
vance, if that same candle was formed, it might indicate that a major
trend reversal is occurring.
CANDLE FORMATIONS
The candle development will give us immediate identification of the current
market’s environment and the market participant’s acceptance or rejection
or a support or resistance level in a clearly visual manner.

c07.qxd 9/25/06 8:30 AM Page 191
Candle Charts and Top Reversal Patterns 191
The Doji
There is a special candle that has no real body to speak of and is called
the doji. The close of this candle is at exactly the same price as the close.
I generally am a little more lenient with this formation; if after a long range
trading session the close is less than 8 percent of the overall high and low,
I consider it a doji. For example, if the Dow has a 100-point trading range
and the close is within 8 points of the open, I consider it a doji. In curren-
cies, for example, if the British pound had a 150-point range and the market
closed within 12 points of the open, I would consider that a doji formation
(Figure 7.3).
FIGURE 7.3
Doji formations help confirm reversals. There are different names and
nuances associated with certain dojis, such as the gravestone, Figure 7.4,
which, when formed after a major downtrend, signals that the trend is near
an end and that slightly lower prices are expected to come. It is similar in
appearance to what is called an inverted hammerat market bottoms or a
shooting starat the top of a prolonged price advance.
FIGURE 7.4
The dragonfly, Figure 7.5, resembles another candle pattern with
similar implications, which is a hanging manformation. This candle gen-

c07.qxd 9/25/06 8:30 AM Page 192
192 CANDLESTICK AND PIVOT POINT TRADING TRIGGERS
erally develops after a long uptrend and has very bearish implications at
market tops.
FIGURE 7.5 FIGURE 7.6
Then there is a long-legged, or rickshaw, dojiin Figure 7.6. It has an ex-
tremely wide range, which heightens the collective market participant’s in-
decision.
The secret weapon of candlestick charting is knowing the power of
what the doji represents. Dojis indicate indecision—the market ends where
it began. Confidence is lost from buyers or sellers on the open as the mar-
ket made a lot of noise as the range was established. In a bullish or bearish
trending market, indecision is the last thing you want to see. Strong rejec-
tion or failure from the high and/or low is a significant telltale sign that
changes are coming.
We use the phrasing of Sir Isaac Newton’s law in the markets an awful
lot because it really applies to market moves: “A body in motion tends to
stay in motion until a force or obstacle stops or changes that motion.” I be-
lieve and teach that the doji represents that force: It generally stops or
changes the motion or momentum due to the uncertainty or indecision that
is created at peak and troughs.
In a strong uptrending market, usually the market will close near a
high, as larger-capitalized traders will hold positions overnight. If the large-
money traders are not confident the market will move higher in price, then
usually the market closes back near the open. If large-capitalized traders
lose confidence, then it is best to wait before making a trading decision,
right? Well, that is the indecision that forms a doji.
Dojis help form two- and three-candle formations that can develop into
more powerful and trustworthy signals once identified. A few of these for-
mations are morning doji star, the evening doji star, and the bullishand
bearish harami doji crosses, which are discussed later in this chapter.
With each of these patterns, we need to see a specific sequence of events
for these patterns to develop, such as a gap lower open and a gap higher
open than a previous close. Due to the electronic age and 24-hour market

c07.qxd 9/25/06 8:30 AM Page 193
Candle Charts and Top Reversal Patterns 193
access, these patterns have several variations. Therefore, I have simplified
my search for what really matters most and concentrated my attention on
certain high-frequency formations.
That is not to say that other patterns are not worth notice, such as the
bullish piercing pattern, the bearish dark cloud cover, the engulfing pat-
terns, the harami, and continuation patterns, such as the rising and falling
three methods. There are many combinations that end up becoming great
“after the fact” type patterns. There are the fry pan pattern, the advancing
soldiers, the towers, the three crows, the separating lines, the tower tops
and bottoms, the belt hold, the counterattack lines, the three river bottoms,
et cetera.
Other Important Candle Patterns
For practical trading application, it is very difficult to program code for
most software trading applications to automatically alert you to a trade sig-
nal based on the exact patterns and sequences of a particular formation. It
is most important that you be able to act on that signal. However, it is pos-
sible to program a few select patterns once you identify what the most fre-
quent and most reliable candle patterns are that reproduce desirable
market reactions or price moves, especially when these patterns occur at or
near the predicted support and resistance levels derived from pivot point
calculations. We have done that in a small sample and a back test, which I
will share with you. First, let me give an overall description of what the sec-
ond-most-important candle patterns are after the dojis and of how to trigger
a trade based on the specific relationship of those patterns to the four com-
mon denominators to which we all have equal access: the opens, the highs,
the lows, and the closes of a respective time period. There is one more ele-
ment that stock traders have, and that is real-time trading volume analysis.
Volume can highlight candle patterns’ significance, such as the hammer
pattern shown in Figure 7.7.
FIGURE 7.7

c07.qxd 9/25/06 8:30 AM Page 194
194 CANDLESTICK AND PIVOT POINT TRADING TRIGGERS
• The hammer indicates that a reversal or a bottom is near in a down-
trend. When a hammer appears at the top of an uptrend, the name
changes to a “hanging man” and indicates that a top is near. There are
three main characteristics that a pattern needs in order to qualify.
1. The real body is at the upper end of the trading range; the color
(white or black) is not important.
2. The lower part, or the “shadow,” should be at least twice the length
of the real body.
3. It should have little or no upper shadow, like a shaved head candle.
After a long decline, if a hammer forms on higher or increased vol-
ume, this adds to the certainty that a capitulation low has occurred.
Hammers can be created both by a closing below the open, which
would be assigned a negative change value (shown in Figure 7.8), and
by a higher close than the open, which would be assigned a positive
change value (shown in Figure 7.9).
Hammer
FIGURE 7.8
Hammer
FIGURE 7.9

c07.qxd 9/25/06 8:30 AM Page 195
Candle Charts and Top Reversal Patterns 195
FIGURE 7.10
• The shooting staris the inverted formation of the hammer and forms at
tops (Figure 7.10). It usually signals a major reversal. The color does
not matter, but the body should be at the lower end of the trading range
with a long shadow. Its significance is that it shows that the market
opened near the low of the day, then had an explosive rally that failed,
and closed back down near the low of the day. Usually there is little or
no lower shadow like a shaven bottom. When it is at the bottom of a
downtrend, it is called an inverted hammer. Figure 7.11 shows a posi-
tive assigned candle, or a higher-close-than-open star. Figure 7.12
shows a negative assigned candle, or a lower-close-than-open star.
FIGURE 7.11

c07.qxd 9/25/06 8:30 AM Page 196
196 CANDLESTICK AND PIVOT POINT TRADING TRIGGERS
FIGURE 7.12
• The morning star is a major bottom reversal pattern that is a three-
candle formation (Figure 7.13). The first candle has a long black real
body. The second candle has a small real body that gaps lower than the
first candle’s body. The third candle’s body sometimes gaps higher
than the second one but does not happen often. It is important that the
third candle is a white candle and closes well above the midpoint of the
first candle’s real body.
A variation of the morning star doji pattern is shown in Figure 7.14.
There are 10 or 12 different variations of this pattern; therefore, I look
for the candle following the doji to generate a signal.
FIGURE 7.13 FIGURE 7.14

c07.qxd 9/25/06 8:30 AM Page 197
Candle Charts and Top Reversal Patterns 197
• The evening doji star(see Figures 7.15 and 7.16) is the exact opposite
of the morning doji star. It is the second-most-bearish top pattern, next
to the abandon babyor island top formation.
FIGURE 7.15 FIGURE 7.16
• The haramiis a small real body within the body of the prior body’s can-
dle (Figure 7.17). This is known as a reversal pattern or a warning of a
trend change, especially at tops of markets. It is not important that the
colors be opposite, but I notice that the more reliable signals are gen-
erated when they are.
FIGURE 7.17
• The bearish harami doji crossformation is a long white candle, signi-
fying that the market closed above the open, with little or no shadow at
both ends of the candle (Figure 7.18). It was followed in the next time
period by a doji within the middle of the real body. This tells me that
sellers are entering the market.
FIGURE 7.18

c07.qxd 9/25/06 8:30 AM Page 198
198 CANDLESTICK AND PIVOT POINT TRADING TRIGGERS
• The bullish harami doji crosswould occur in a downtrending market.
The first candle is usually a long dark candle, signifying that the market
closed below the open, with little or no real shadow at both ends. Then
the next trading session, a doji forms (Figures 7.19 and 7.20).
FIGURE 7.19 FIGURE 7.20
• The dark cloud cover is a bearish reversal signal that usually appears
after an uptrend. The first white candle is followed by a dark candle.
The important features here are that the dark candle should open
higher than the white candle’s high and close well below the midpoint
of the white candle’s real body (Figures 7.21 and 7.22).
FIGURE 7.21 FIGURE 7.22
• The bullish piercing pattern is considered the opposite of the dark
cloud cover. It requires that the first candle is a long dark candle, that
the second candle gaps open lower than the first candle, and that it
closes well above the midpoint of the long dark first candle. Look for 50
percent penetration of long dark candle (Figures 7.23 and 7.24).

c07.qxd 9/25/06 8:30 AM Page 199
Candle Charts and Top Reversal Patterns 199
FIGURE 7.23 FIGURE 7.24
• The bullish engulfing patternis indicated when a white candle’s real
body completely covers the previous dark candle’s real body. The
opening is lower than the first candle’s real body, and the close is above
the first candle’s middle portion of the body. The more “wraps” or past
candle’s real bodies that are engulfed, the stronger or more significant
is the signal (Figures 7.25 and 7.26).
FIGURE 7.25 FIGURE 7.26
• The bearish engulfing patternis distinctive. The engulfing bearish line
is signaled where a dark candle’s real body completely covers the pre-
vious white candle’s real body. The opening is higher than the first can-
dle’s real body, and the close is below the first candle’s middle portion
of the body (Figures 7.27 and 7.28).
FIGURE 7.27

c07.qxd 9/25/06 8:30 AM Page 200
200 CANDLESTICK AND PIVOT POINT TRADING TRIGGERS
FIGURE 7.28
• The bearish falling three methods is a bearish continuation pattern
often associated with a bear flag formation. The three little candles
usually remain within the range of the first dark candle, which includes
both the real body and the shadow. Some argue that it works with just
two candles in the middle, but the actual textbook classification is
three white candles. The last portion of this formation is that the next
long dark candle closes below the first dark candle’s close (Figures
7.29 and 7.30).
FIGURE 7.29 FIGURE 7.30

c07.qxd 9/25/06 8:30 AM Page 201
Candle Charts and Top Reversal Patterns 201
• The bullish rising three methodsis a bullish continuation pattern with
the same characteristics as in the bearish falling three methods, but
just the opposite. During the beginning stages of an advancing price
trend, an unusually long white candle is preceded by three smaller dark
candles. Again, it can even be just two candles, but the textbook ver-
sion is that three smaller candles need to stay within the range of the
first long white candle. The last white candle shows a powerful, ad-
vancing white candle that should open above the previous session’s
close and should close above the first long white candle’s close as well
(Figures 7.31 and 7.32).
FIGURE 7.31 FIGURE 7.32
• The tweezer tops ortweezer bottomsis a double-top or double-bottom
formation that can be disguised by a few variations. The tweezer top
forms after an uptrend and then two consecutive time periods making
equal highs. This signals that there is strong resistance and a short-
term top is in place. One variation is that the first period usually con-
sists of a long body candle with a higher close than open (positive).
The second day is usually a small real-body candle that has a high
equal to the prior day’s high. It can be a positive or a negative open
close relationship; but it is more consistent and a better signal that a re-
versal is forming when the second candle’s color is the opposite of the
first candle’s color. A tweezer bottom would be the exact opposite of
this formation.
Other variations have been called “equal and opposite” or “chop-
stick” patterns. In Chinese, it would be called the yin (black or red neg-
ative close candle) and the yang (white, hollow, or green positive close
candle).
In Figure 7.33, the tweezer bottom looks more like a pair of fat
chopsticks and is almost equal in size and in direct proportion to the
real body’s shape. However, the colors are opposite, which indicates a
strong reversal.

c07.qxd 9/25/06 8:30 AM Page 202
202 CANDLESTICK AND PIVOT POINT TRADING TRIGGERS
FIGURE 7.33 FIGURE 7.34
In Figure 7.34, the tweezer top also resembles a pair of fat chop-
sticks, but the dark candle exceeds the first candle’s real body and en-
gulfs it. That is evidence that a top is in place.
The equal and opposite formations occur with false breakouts
and key reversals. They are powerful signals that should be respected.
Figure 7.35 shows a bar chart to compare to the candle chart in Fig-
ure 7.36.
FIGURE 7.35

c07.qxd 9/25/06 8:30 AM Page 203
Candle Charts and Top Reversal Patterns 203
FIGURE 7.36
TRADING TRIGGER STRATEGY
Forex traders note that these candle patterns show up frequently in the cur-
rency pairs. Since many times the currency markets trade between the Eu-
ropean and U.S. sessions, we see periods of low volatility; and the foreign
exchange (forex) markets move in sideways channels, otherwise known as
longer-term intraday consolidation periods. We often see false breakdowns
and breakouts, which create the equal and opposite formations. Therefore,
a trigger to enter a position would be if the market price is near an impor-
tant pivot point support level: Buy on the close of the second candle’s time
period or on the open of the immediately next time frame. Place a stop two
ticks (or PIPS) beneath the double-bottom low. You should see immediate
results as the market moves higher. Adjust your stop accordingly.
Chapter 8 goes into more specific trading rules on entries based on
three highly effective and frequently reoccurring patterns. Dojis form more
often than not at pivot point support and resistance levels. With that said,
the pivot point support and resistance levels will usually be either the exact
high, the exact low, both, or darn close to it, which is why I wanted to get
statistical information on the doji, the hammer, and the shooting star pat-
terns. Also, I wanted to answer the following questions that apply for the
most active day trading markets in futures and forex.

c07.qxd 9/25/06 8:30 AM Page 204
204 CANDLESTICK AND PIVOT POINT TRADING TRIGGERS
• How many lows of the day are formed by a doji candle pattern?
• How many highs of the day are formed by a doji candle pattern?
• How many lows of the day are formed by a hammer candle pattern?
• How many highs of the day are formed by a shooting star candle
pattern?
To find the answers, I conducted a back test using Genesis Software
(visit www.nationalfutures.com for more details) with its head program-
mer, Peter Kilman. Pete came to a seminar I was giving on Advance Trad-
ing Tactics for forex markets in Houston in January 2006. It is interesting
that, at the time, I was unaware of his preliminary test results when he of-
fered to share them with the audience. In fact, he had thought that he ran
the test wrong when the results popped up, so he ran it three times. Pete
ran the test from the preceding 255 trading days on a 15-minute time period
for each market. Because there are about 255 trading days in an average
year, I felt this was a pretty good sample of information. Most people want
to see longer-term studies; for some applications and specific studies, that
may be a novel idea. However, I would say the markets in 2005 generated
enough volatility, with macroeconomic and geopolitical events combined
with the Federal Reserve tightening interest rates. Moreover, energy prices
were on the move; and we were faced with global terrorist attacks, such as
the heinous bomb blast in London that shocked the world in mid-July 2005.
That event sent a tremendous price shock to global equity markets. In ad-
dition, there are more independent online traders and a new crop of super-
traders known as hedge funds trading in the markets. So with these
variables and market influences, I would say 2005 was a good representa-
tion of a more modern historic test period for determining what influenced
market prices.
A 10-year back study would not take into account the more active on-
line trading vehicles or the popular spot foreign currency markets. Even if
this were a 2-, 5-, or 10-year study, risk disclosure and the government still
would require me to state that past price history is not indicative of future
results. So, my study was a back-test study to determine the validity of find-
ing out if dojis, hammers, and shooting stars were really forming at major
turning points or were making the actual highs or lows in the more active
day trading markets and how often. Here are the parameters Pete and I
used to determine the back test and the results of the findings: If a doji is
within three ticks of the low, we count it. It could be the low itself, or it
could be within one, two, or three ticks of the low. In the same sense, we
will include when a shooting star is within three ticks of the high. To create
a percentage, we take the number of days when we are within three ticks of
the low and divide that by 255.

c07.qxd 9/25/06 8:30 AM Page 205
Candle Charts and Top Reversal Patterns 205
For example, we found that on 132 of the past 255 days, a doji came
within three ticks of the low on bonds. We took 132 and divided by 255, get-
ting 0.528, which is 53 percent. We also found that the hammer pattern was
within three ticks of the low 36 percent of the time on bonds. We added the
two pattern totals together and found that hammers and dojis formed the
low on bonds 88 percent of the time, either making the exact high or com-
ing within three ticks. We must keep in mind that there are many days that
have multiple dojis or hammer patterns.
Some days may have four doji patterns where only one of these doji
patterns formed the low, while the other three gave false signals. For gold,
we used four ticks. For e-mini–Standard & Poors (S&P) 500, we used four
ticks (each tick is 12.50, so four ticks is one full point). In the Chicago
Board of Trade (CBOT) mini-Dow, we also used four ticks, which may ex-
plain why the resulting difference is a lower percentage of occurrences for
hammers, stars, and dojis forming at tops and bottoms in the Dow. As you
can see, the results are staggering that the highs and lows are formed by
these three patterns. If you just focus on when these patterns form, looking
for a shift in momentum or the turning point, you may improve your prof-
itability and frequency of winning trades as you may develop a better level
of confidence armed with these findings (Figures 7.37 to 7.40).
100%
90%
80%
70%
60%
50%
40%
30%
20%
10%
0%
FIGURE 7.37 Bond Lows and Highs
Used with permission of GenesisFT.com.

c07.qxd 9/25/06 8:30 AM Page 206
206 CANDLESTICK AND PIVOT POINT TRADING TRIGGERS
100%
90%
80%
70%
60%
50%
40%
30%
20%
10%
0%
FIGURE 7.38 Gold Comex
Used with permission of GenesisFT.com.
100%
90%
80%
70%
60%
50%
40%
30%
20%
10%
0%
FIGURE 7.39 Mini–S&P Lows and Highs
Used with permission of GenesisFT.com.

c07.qxd 9/25/06 8:30 AM Page 207
Candle Charts and Top Reversal Patterns 207
100%
90%
80%
70%
60%
50%
40%
30%
20%
10%
0%
FIGURE 7.40 Mini-Dow Lows and Highs
Used with permission of GenesisFT.com.
As we know, spot forex currency trading goes on 24 hours a day, with-
out a centralized marketplace or exchange. There are many arguments on
when the day ends and begins. For our analysis in calculating pivot points,
I established that the forex trading day ends with the New York Bank clos-
ing at 5 P.M. Eastern time. From a market time period to run a study as to
what makes a high or a low, I needed a rigid sample test period with accu-
rate and stable data. We wanted to find the highs and the lows of the day
based on trades and real trades. Forex data is not exchange based. Each
broker has his or her own set of data. Although the data is parallel to the
that of the futures, as we discussed in Chapter 1 (known as the basis), they
are not trades; instead, they are bids/asks.
To get a taste for the true highs and lows of the day from a centralized
market place that had actual time-stamped transactions (time and sales
data), we used the futures markets open outcry session, which is from
7:20 A.M.until 2 P.M.Central time. This eliminates the possibility of the true
low being an extra few ticks away on the real exchange markets. Using
this trading time period eliminated arguments over what time we should
switch from one day to the next based on the forex data. However, since,
again, this is a test to find the candle pattern that formed when the market
made highs and lows during a specific trading session, it is best to check on
the day-session-only highs and lows to avoid possible anomalies with re-
gard to holidays, early bank hours, and market surges in the future (Figures
7.41 to 7.44).

c07.qxd 9/25/06 8:30 AM Page 208
208 CANDLESTICK AND PIVOT POINT TRADING TRIGGERS
100%
90%
80%
70%
60%
50%
40%
30%
20%
10%
0%
FIGURE 7.41 Yen Lows and Highs
Used with permission of GenesisFT.com.
100%
90%
80%
70%
60%
50%
40%
30%
20%
10%
0%
FIGURE 7.42 Euro Lows and Highs
Used with permission of GenesisFT.com.

c07.qxd 9/25/06 8:30 AM Page 209
Candle Charts and Top Reversal Patterns 209
47%
FIGURE 7.43 British Pound Lows and Highs
Used with permission of GenesisFT.com.
100%
90%
80%
70%
60%
50%
40%
30%
20%
10%
0%
FIGURE 7.44 Canadian Dollar Lows and Highs
Used with permission of GenesisFT.com.

c07.qxd 9/25/06 8:30 AM Page 210
210 CANDLESTICK AND PIVOT POINT TRADING TRIGGERS
We can dig a bit deeper in the results and say that certain markets re-
spond better than others with the psychological elements that dojis, ham-
mers, and stars represent. Each market has its own character. The
Canadian dollar, for example, is a currency that highly correlates to com-
modities, which would be a good reason why it has a strong percentage of
occurrences versus the British pound. The Canadian dollar tracks closer to
the moves in gold. In addition, the volume of trading is lower as compared
to the British pound, the euro, or the yen, according to the Triennial Cen-
tral Bank Survey 2004. While most currencies are tradable, the five curren-
cies, including the U.S. dollar (four currency pairs), that represent the
majority of foreign exchange trading volume are the euro (EUR/USD), with
the majority of volume of 28 percent; the yen (USD/JPY), with estimated 17
percent of market share; the British pound (GBP/USD), with 14 percent;
and the Swiss franc (USD/CHF), with an estimated 5 percent share of over-
all volume activity. The Canadian dollar volume trades comparatively
speaking about less than 4 percent.
There are those who will take these statistics and show that there is no
evidence that it is reliable information or that there was not enough back-
test studies completed. In fact, statisticians and those who understand
Bayesian calculations will most likely dispute these findings. Well that’s al-
right, as I see these patterns form over and over and over; and the computer
findings substantiate that. In case you wanted to know what Bayesian the-
ory is, it is from the famous mathematician Thomas Bayes. He was born in
London in 1702 and died in 1761. One of the few works Bayes published
during his lifetime was a defense of Issac Newton against a bishop who had
attacked the logic of his calculus, according to the Encyclopedia Britan-
nica. Bayes was successful enough as a mathematician to win election to
the Royal Society of London. He would have been long forgotten had it not
been for his friend Richard Price, who inherited Bayes’s papers. Price, him-
self famous for devising one of the first actuarial tables, came across the
“Essay towards Solving a Problem in the Doctrine of Chances” and helped
develop the Bayes rule. Statisticians have long recognized the rule’s im-
portance, and some high school classes use it to solve straightforward
probability problems. But once both data and beliefs enter the picture, the
math can become unbelievably complex. Over the past 10 or 15 years, how-
ever, computers have become powerful enough to handle Bayesian calcu-
lations with relative ease; and the method has won a following. Bayes’s
formula allows scientists to combine new data with their prior beliefs
about how the world works. It is an idea that amounts to heresy in much of
the statistical world. After all, the method requires individuals to make sub-
jective decisions about how strongly to weigh prior beliefs. The essence of
the Bayesian approach is to provide a mathematical rule explaining how

c07.qxd 9/25/06 8:30 AM Page 211
Candle Charts and Top Reversal Patterns 211
you should change your existing beliefs in the light of new evidence. In
other words, it allows scientists to combine new data with their existing
knowledge or expertise.
This rule applies to the statistics provided on hammers and dojis
forming bottoms, as in the case of the Canadian dollar, saying “40 percent
of bottoms are hammers” is not equivalent to saying “40 percent of ham-
mers are bottoms.” The Bayes rule can be used to connect these two state-
ments. Therefore, you must be aware that what happened in the past might
not repeat with the same frequency or that this data is even reliable. How-
ever, the facts are the facts. During this time period, the results speak for
themselves.
Now that you are armed with enough information to be dangerous in
your trading, let’s go over how to find certain setups and explain what trig-
gers a call to initiate a trade based on these findings combined with what
we have learned so far with pivot point analysis. In the following chapters,
we will also cover the type of risk parameters to use and when and where
to exit positions.

c07.qxd 9/25/06 8:30 AM Page 212

c08.qxd 9/25/06 8:38 AM Page 213
CHAPTER 8
Setups and
Triggers
Combining Candles and Pivots
T
here are many methods you can employ to actively trade, including
various mechanical trading systems and manual trading tactics. The
constant changing of market conditions can require system traders
to adapt and update the parameters for their trading decisions. I often pre-
fer the hands-on visual approach, which is more of a manual method, while
employing a mechanical trigger to both enter and exit a position with a
specific risk management technique. The visual approach is aided by the
use of candle charts.
The triggers discussed in this chapter are based on the methodology de-
veloped from my 26 years as a trader. I have continually strived to find
clearer signals and triggers for short- and even longer-term trade opportu-
nities. I have been doing extensive research regarding the combination of
candlestick formations and pivot points; some of the proprietary signals
that I have taught traders at seminars and in my course, I am sharing in this
book. This chapter details the triggers designed by me, based on my re-
search joining both specific candle patterns and pivot point analysis.
I am going to cover three setups: (1) the high close doji (HCD), (2) the
low close doji (LCD), and (3) the jackhammer. Each one has a special set
of rules by which to initiate a trade and to exit a trade. These strategies
have done well in periods of both bullishness and bearishness, as well as in
times of heightened volatility and periods of low volatility.
This is just a small sample of what is taught in my three-month inten-
sive trading school. I have been asked why I would share such high-
probability trading signals with the public. Well, I have taught these methods
to many people, including my own father and son. Just as they have differ-
213

c08.qxd 9/25/06 8:38 AM Page 214
214 CANDLESTICK AND PIVOT POINT TRADING TRIGGERS
ent results with the same signals, you will, too, due to the very nature of
trading. Once my trading concepts are taught by the masses, I do not be-
lieve the signals will be diluted or absorbed in the marketplace.
I believe not every trader will implement my methods in exactly the
same way as I do. For example, Larry Williams has his OOPS method, Mark
Fishers has his method, and Tom Demark had his method let out to the pub-
lic. And all these systems, to my knowledge, are still highly effective strate-
gies. So I do not believe letting you into my “black box” will hurt or dilute
the signals.
There are various markets and various time periods in which to enter a
trade, such as a 60-minute, a 15-minute, and a 5-minute time period for
swing and day traders. These signals work for futures and stocks, and they
work amazingly well in the foreign exchange (forex) markets, as you will
see in the coming examples. The premise is to help keep the trader focused
on the now, to watch and study the current price action. The candle pat-
terns give a visual confirmation of price momentum, and the pivot points
forewarn you of what the potential turning points are. When you combine
the two methods, you have a solid trading program. This setup may help
you improve your trading performance and allow you to develop a consis-
tently winning trading strategy. This could be your personal trading system
that is based off proven and powerful techniques. For a moment, I want you
to envision the concept of epoxy glue: It requires two compounds. Sepa-
rately, they are not very reliable or, in fact, a very strong bonding substance.
However, when combined, a chemical reaction occurs and forms an amaz-
ingly strong and powerful bond. Using the methods of candlesticks with
pivot points can give you that same result if you know what to look for. The
implementation of longer-term analysis using pivot points will give a trader
a fantastic means by which to anticipate a point where a trend change
could occur, thus helping a trader not only to prepare but also to act on a
trade opportunity. One can implement this setup using different time
frames besides daily analysis. You can include weekly and even monthly
pivot point calculations. This method of analysis will alert you well in ad-
vance of a potential support and/or resistance level. In the setup process,
you will heighten your awareness to enter in a long or a short position
against predefined levels and will wait for the trigger or market signal at
those levels. It can not only help you define or identify the target area to
enter but also establish your risk objective. Another event that occurs with
this setup process is that you now can set up your orders to buy on your
trading platform with the selected contract amounts—in other words, pre-
arrange the commands on the electronic order ticket. Now all you need is
confirmation so you can pull the trigger or click the mouse to establish an
entry in the market and establish a position.
In Chapter 7, we covered the importance of dojis and the statistical rel-

c08.qxd 9/25/06 8:38 AM Page 215
Setups and Triggers 215
FIGURE 8.1
evance of why I look for them at pivot point support targets. The primary
importance in the study of the doji at a pivot is to understand that the doji
indicates indecision and is a significant sign that changes are coming. In
candle patterns, the morning doji star is one of the most reliable reversal
formations that a trader can identify. The problem is that there are about 12
variations, making it hard to write code to program in a trading software
package. However, the main component about the doji is the trigger indi-
cating when the next time period’s close is higher than the doji’s high. This
can be a subtle change by just two PIPs in forex or ticks in futures. It can-
not be at the exact high of the doji; rather, it needs to close above the doji
high. This is a very important point, so make sure you are crystal clear on
it. Figure 8.1 demonstrates the definition of a close above the doji high.
HIGH CLOSE DOJI
The most reliable and most common method used to determine support
and resistance levels is the mathematical-based calculations from pivot
point analysis. Through the years, I have noticed that doji formations form
more often than not at these predefined levels. In Chapter 7, we have sta-
tistical information that backs up that observation. That is the focus on
which we want to concentrate—the market’s behavior at support and re-
sistance levels, especially when dojis appear. The key is to watch for con-
firmation for a transition to take place and to act when there is a shift in
momentum. We are looking for a specific conditional change to take place
in the market, namely a higher closing high above a doji’s high at the pivot
point support level. This is the pattern I call the high close doji (HCD)

c08.qxd 9/25/06 8:38 AM Page 216
216 CANDLESTICK AND PIVOT POINT TRADING TRIGGERS
method. It has dimensions of specific criteria that need to fall in place,
helping to eliminate and to filter out false signals. It is a simple and basic
approach to candlestick chart patterns that is a high-probability winning
strategy.
Characteristics
When the market is in an extended trend to the downside and the market
condition is oversold, a doji appears, indicating indecision and weakness of
sellers to maintain the downward trend. In addition, prices are near a pro-
jected pivot point support target level (Figure 8.1).
When a doji appears, you should:
• Buy on the close or on the next open after a new closinghigh is made
from the previous doji candle high, especially when the market is
against a key pivot point support target number.
• Place stops below the lowest low point of the doji. Stops should be ini-
tially placed as a stop-close-only, meaning you do not exit the trade un-
less the market closes back below the doji’s low.
• Sell or exit the trade on the close or on the next open of a candle that
makes a lower closing low near a key pivot point resistance number.
You can use a “filter” or backup process to confirm the buy signal, such
as a bullish convergence stochastic pattern or a bullish convergence on
moving average convergence/divergence (MACD).
Spot Forex Triggers
Now let’s put these rules into practice by examining active trading markets,
such as in foreign currency markets. Figure 8.2 shows a 15-minute time pe-
riod candle chart on the spot British pound. Taking the data from Septem-
ber 29 and using the close from the 5 P.M.(ET) New York Bank settlement,
we have a high of 177.04, a low of 175.92, and a close of 176.13. Once we cal-
culate the pivot points, we have the first support (S-1) figured as 175.68.
The first resistance (R-1) is 176.80.
As you can see, the market trades for almost two hours at the pivot sup-
port; but at 4:30, a doji forms. Three time periods later, a close above the
doji’s high occurs. Note that the market closes above both moving average
values. In addition, the COMAS (Conditional Optimized Moving Average
System™) method shows the shorter-term moving average cross above the
longer-term average, confirming a trigger to go long. The trigger to enter a
long position would be on the time period’s close or the very next session’s

c08.qxd 9/25/06 8:38 AM Page 217
Setups and Triggers 217
FIGURE 8.2
Used with permission of esignal.com.
open; the entry price would be 175.95. As the market blasts off into trend
mode, the money-making sequence of events transpires—higher highs,
higher lows, and higher closing highs.
As the trade matures, watch the reaction at the pivot resistance R-1 of
176.80. Observe the bullish momentum dry up; for the first time, there is a
lower closing low, and prices close below both moving average values. The
moving averages also form a negative cross, confirming a trigger to exit
the long position. As a day trader, you have completed your mission to cap-
ture money from the market. This example would have had you exit the
position at 176.57. For each full-lot-size contract, that would be a 62-PIP
profit or $620 gain. Granted, you did not buy the low or sell the high; but
you certainly did what you always want to do—capture a nice chunk of the
middle of a price move. If you understand that markets move from trend
mode to consolidation (or congestion) phase, then you will realize that at
this time it is best to walk away and wait for the next setup because you
are now vulnerable to getting whipsawed in the market during the consol-
idation phase. That is why most successful traders make their money and
walk away. Other less fortunate traders tend to make money early in the
day and lose it by trading it away late in the trading session during the con-
solidation period.

c08.qxd 9/25/06 8:38 AM Page 218
218 CANDLESTICK AND PIVOT POINT TRADING TRIGGERS
Let’s examine another trading setup in a spot forex market and see
how the HCD signal responds. Figure 8.3 is another 15-minute chart on the
euro currency with the two indicators stochastics and MACD. So far in this
book, you have learned how to spot triggers and how to properly read the
indicators. The HCD trigger signals to enter in a position earlier than the
MACD does and is confirmed by the stochastics as the %K and %D both
close above the 20 percent line. What helps keep you in the trade is the se-
quence of trading events, such as higher highs, higher lows, and higher clos-
ing highs. Note that the %K and %D stochastic readings do not close
beneath the 80 percent level until the end of the trend run. Also note that
once the market closes below a prior time period’s low and a doji forms at
the top of the price peak, the stochastics does cross beneath and closes
below the 80 percent line. The MACD also signals a zero-line cross. All the
indicators lined up with an exit point.
This signal generated a buy at 119.06. If you applied the combined tech-
nical tools covered in this book, it would have allowed you to stay with the
trade and to capture the bulk of the move as the exit triggered at 120.15. Per
100,000 lot contract in the spot forex market, that would have generated a
handsome profit over $1,000 per position. All it takes is a few of those per
month to generate a tidy income.
FIGURE 8.3
RealTick graphics used with permission of Townsend Analytics, LTD.

c08.qxd 9/25/06 8:38 AM Page 219
Setups and Triggers 219
Triggers on Futures Markets
Let’s tune our focus to the futures markets. Figure 8.4 shows a 15-minute
chart on the Chicago Board of Trade (CBOT) mini-gold contract. Notice the
HCD trigger and the small hammerlike pattern that forms on the pivot point
support. The trigger to go long is on the close of that time period or the next
time frame’s open. If the market is to go into trend mode, which in this ex-
ample it did, we should see the sequence of events unfold, such as higher
highs, higher lows, and higher closing highs. As a day trader, your exit is at
the least to be calculated by the end of the day; but until the market makes
the first lower closing low near a key resistance level, you stay with the po-
sition or at least scale out of partial positions at the first sign of a pause in
the trending condition.
The long would be entered at 530.50, and the offset was triggered at
538. That would be a $7.50 move per contract and would equate to $250 per
contract.
The example in Figure 8.5 is on a five-minute chart. We see confirma-
tion of an HCD trigger with the fast stochastics closing back above the 20
percent line. Here we have the same feature with higher highs, higher lows,
and higher closing highs. The trigger to go long here is 11315⁄ , and the trade
32
was still going strong until we see a series of dojis at the top. In this case,
FIGURE 8.4
RealTick graphics used with permission of Townsend Analytics, LTD.

c08.qxd 9/25/06 8:38 AM Page 220
220 CANDLESTICK AND PIVOT POINT TRADING TRIGGERS
FIGURE 8.5
Used with permission of esignal.com.
especially as a day trader, you may do several things: Liquidate your longs
at the last price, 11330⁄ , which equates to a juicy profit per contract of
32
$468.75 (each tick in bonds is $31.25). You would look to get out because
you know, based on the research covered in Chapter 7, that dojis form the
day’s highs or lows in bonds a fair amount of the time; and that is what oc-
curred in this example. Then when you see a doji form after a nice trend run
or near a pivot, getting flat is good common sense. If you had multiple po-
sitions on, the scaling out of half to two-thirds of them would be another al-
ternative (Figure 8.6).
The trade example in Figure 8.7 shows a 5-minute chart on the CBOT
mini-Dow contract. The daily pivot point support lines up at 10836. A doji
forms; and the cofirming HCD trigger, which was initiated at 10846, devel-
ops. I have three identical studies under the chart: (1) the fast stochastics,
(2) the MACD study, and (3) a commodity channel index (CCI) using a 14-
period parameter setting. The stochastics closes above the 20 percent line
at the same time as the entry on the HCD trigger; the MACD has not yet trig-
gered a signal to go long, even as the market soars to 10861. The CCI makes
a zero-line cross signal, triggering to buy or at least confirming that your
long position is valid, but also late.
What is important is studying how the indicators work and under-
standing that if most traders follow lagging indicators, by the time they see

c08.qxd 9/25/06 8:38 AM Page 221
Setups and Triggers 221
FIGURE 8.6
Used with permission of esignal.com.
FIGURE 8.7
Used with permission of esignal.com.

c08.qxd 9/25/06 8:38 AM Page 222
222 CANDLESTICK AND PIVOT POINT TRADING TRIGGERS
a bona fide buy signal, you are already well on your way to profits. This sig-
nal gets you 15 points ahead of the crowd, or $75 per contract. That might
be not much money; but on a day trade margin of $500, that is a 15 percent
return and gives you a leading edge over the competition.
Besides the mini-Dow, Standard & Poor’s (S&P), and the Nasdaq, there
is the Russell 2000 contract, which had a tremendous run in 2005 and early
2006. This stock index contract responds well with the high close doji trig-
gers combined with the COMAS method. Remember that we do not see a
bona fide doji appear all the time; for example, when the close is not at the
exact same price as the open. A doji can assume the shape of a spinning top
pattern as well, which is why I use my judgment to determine if the close is
less than 8 percent or so of the overall range. I do consider the psychologi-
cal aspect of the creation of the doji candle pattern. After all, even a spin-
ning top after a downtrend indicates indecision; so a higher assigned value
or a higher closing high takes on the same meaning as a high close doji.
Also confirming a trigger to go long, as the example in Figure 8.8 shows, is
seeing the HCD form at or come near to the pivot point support level and
then look for a close above both moving average components. In addition,
the shorter-term moving average crosses above the pivot point average,
FIGURE 8.8
Used with permission of esignal.com.

c08.qxd 9/25/06 8:38 AM Page 223
Setups and Triggers 223
confirming a conditional bullish change in the market. A trigger to enter a
long was established on the close above the spinning top pattern or the
open of the next period, which was at 658.00; and as you can see, higher
highs, higher lows, and higher closing highs developed. Examine the mar-
ket’s behavior at the R-1 target resistance level: The market simply paused,
but yet still closed above the R-1 price resistance level. After it penetrated
the R-1 level, the market consolidated but still maintained a bullish bias be-
cause the market did not confirm an exit signal by simultaneously estab-
lishing three criteria:
1. A close below a prior low.
2. The moving averages that did not cross and close below each other.
3. A price that did not close below both moving average values.
Fractal Relationships
In Figure 8.9, I want to dissect a daily chart to see what the intraday pattern
looked like, as the daily chart formed a textbook high close doji trigger. The
trigger to go long was at 208.25, on the close of business on January 24 or
on the open on January 25. This example really highlights a fractal rela-
tionship as one time period interacts with another.
FIGURE 8.9
Used with permission of esignal.com.

c08.qxd 9/25/06 8:38 AM Page 224
224 CANDLESTICK AND PIVOT POINT TRADING TRIGGERS
My favorite time period for intraday trading is the 15-minute time pe-
riod because it is divisible by 3, a relatively important number in the field
of technical analysis. More important, it is an extremely relevant time pe-
riod to the grain complex: Since the market opens at 9:30 A.M. (CT) and
closes at 1:15 P.M. (CT) there are 15 complete 15-minute time periods to
trade.
Coincidentally, the day the doji formed on an end-of-day chart as
shown in Figure 8.9, we see that a high close doji pattern formed on the in-
traday chart on a 15-minute time period as well. Therefore, we sometimes
see this pattern develop on smaller time periods, such as the 15-minute pe-
riod for end-of-day patterns for added confirmation. Figure 8.10 shows the
15-minute chart for corn on January 24, the day the doji formed. This is a
great example of what a fractal relationship is with trading signals.
As you look at the 15-minute chart, we see a nice bullish run, complete
with the sequence of events we like when in a long position: higher highs,
higher lows, and higher closing highs. Quite a sweet setup—no pressure—
no hassle—the way trading should be all the time!
FIGURE 8.10
Used with permission of esignal.com.

c08.qxd 9/25/06 8:38 AM Page 225
Setups and Triggers 225
Intraday Triggers on Stocks
Let’s look at a 15-minute chart on IBM, a fairly popular stock, and see how
this method applies for day traders. Figure 8.11 shows a double bottom
formed with the primary low formed by a doji followed by a hammer. The
higher close occurs at 81.24, with immediate results following. Prices peak
at 12 noon around 81.50, only to fade back after the crowd decides to take
profits before lunchtime. The initial risk target has not been challenged
during that time frame. Then, as volume picks up as traders return in the af-
ternoon, another doji forms, followed by a second HCD signal. See how the
market hugs the daily S-1 pivot support as well. The market enjoys a nice
gain with the very sequence we like when we are in a long position: higher
highs, higher lows, and higher closing highs, right up to the daily pivot point
R-1 target high.
Let’s look at another stock example. For those stock traders not look-
ing to trade commodities but wanting to participate in the action, here is a
novel opportunity. One consideration should be to buy stock in the Chicago
Board of Trade. That way you will own a piece of the exchange! Figure 8.12
shows a 15-minute chart on CBOT holdings. Notice that the HCD trigger is
made by a higher close than open hammer candle pattern; and as you can
FIGURE 8.11
RealTick graphics used with permission of Townsend Analytics, LTD.

c08.qxd 9/25/06 8:38 AM Page 226
226 CANDLESTICK AND PIVOT POINT TRADING TRIGGERS
FIGURE 8.12
RealTick graphics used with permission of Townsend Analytics, LTD.
see, the market reacted strongly as the trend sequence developed once
again with higher highs, higher lows, and higher closing highs. This stock
generated a buy at 91.70, closed at 93.00, and kept following the money trail
into the next day’s trading session. In fact, the market kept trading higher
up to 119 as of February 24, 2006, when I was editing this book. I would
imagine that as volume increases, this stock can trade higher for years to
come. It has a pretty good track record staying in business; it has been
around for over 155 years.
Let’s look at another commodity-related stock; this one is Exxon. By
now, everyone knows that this company generated the highest profit in a
given quarter of any company in the world. As energy prices bounced
around, so did this stock. In Figure 8.13, we have a 60-minute chart for a
swing trade, showing the weekly and monthly pivot points that are helping
to illustrate and uncover the hidden support value. As the market declines,
the doji formations develop at these confluence levels of supports. Then, as
the moving average crosses and as prices close above the doji highs, we
have a confirmed buy signal.
There was never any pressure of loss on the trade; but even if you were
bored with the trade, a secondary trigger was generated three days later at
57.00. Notice the trending market condition and the sequence of events that

c08.qxd 9/25/06 8:38 AM Page 227
Setups and Triggers 227
FIGURE 8.13
RealTick graphics used with permission of Townsend Analytics, LTD.
we are looking for when in a long position; higher highs, higher lows, and
higher closing highs. Also note that the white candles signify that the mar-
ket is closing above the open on each time period, demonstrating that buy-
ers are dominating the market. This chart pattern resembles a “W” bottom
pattern, which is quite similar in formation to the IBM chart in Figure 8.11.
It is interesting that these two stocks showed this formation on different
dates as well.
I have illustrated how the setup and signal work for intraday time peri-
ods. Let’s take a look at how we can apply the methods combining all the
techniques, including the pivot point moving average crossovers, pivot
point support targets, stochastics, and the high close doji. In Figure 8.14 we
are looking at Alcoa; the stock went into a nasty tailspin, as most markets
did in October 2005. However, after long price declines, you do not want to
get too bearish in the hole, so to speak, especially on high-quality compa-
nies implementing the longer-term monthly pivot point methods. We un-
covered that there was support at 22.15 and a potential bottom or end of
the decline. Granted, the low was 22.28, so we were off by a small margin.
But notice how when using my methods, the signal to go long was triggered
once the market closed above the moving averages; a high close doji trig-
ger prompted a long position; and the stochastics confirmed the long trig-
ger, as %K and %D both crossed and closed above the 20 percent line. If you

c08.qxd 9/25/06 8:38 AM Page 228
228 CANDLESTICK AND PIVOT POINT TRADING TRIGGERS
FIGURE 8.14
RealTick graphics used with permission of Townsend Analytics, LTD.
follow the flow of the market, you will see that the sequence of events that
transpire is higher highs, higher lows, and the most important feature:
higher closing highs! Now, that was a gem of a move! The best part about
this method is that it keeps you focused on specific targets and keeps your
risk to a minimum, allowing you to be a more relaxed and a more confident
trader, letting the trade mature and generating bigger profits.
So far we have demonstrated that dojis form more times than not at
pivot point support and resistance targets. In most of the examples, we
have not seen a classic morning doji star pattern develop at bottoms; how-
ever, high close doji setups have developed. As you have identified the “hid-
den” support target by calculating the pivot point target levels, you had a
much clearer view of timing the market reversal. Stacking the odds in your
favor by including analysis from other time frames, in addition to the aid of
knowing the right way to read the confirming indicators, will continue to
help you with your entries. Combining that with the knowledge of what to
look for in identifying trending conditions and what signals a trend to run
out of momentum will help you with your exits. That is what will increase
your profits.

c08.qxd 9/25/06 8:38 AM Page 229
Setups and Triggers 229
Figure 8.15 is a chart on Dell. As the market was plummeting, an ex-
haustion gap developed. For some traders, buying sharply lower gap open-
ings, such as those that occurred at the end of October, is their bread and
butter. Most traders buy the lower opens and look for the gap to be “filled”
on the charts. In other words, they buy the market looking for prices to
move back up to test the prior day’s settlement. In this situation, that would
have been a bad strategy because the market remained on the defensive for
another week and a half. In fact, the market made a lower low. However, in-
stead of playing the “catch the falling knife” guessing game, if you were pa-
tient and practiced discipline by waiting to see what the market’s behavior
was at the confluence of weekly and monthly supports levels, you would
have seen a high close doji setup develop. Even the stochastics indicator
confirmed the trigger to buy. As you can see, the %K and %D crossed and
closed back above the 20 percent line at the same time as the high close doji
trigger occurred.
The high close doji helps add simplicity to your trading. Aided by the
use of pivot points analysis, stochastics, and MACD indicators and the mov-
ing average method, you have a beautiful system that should help generate
reliable buy signals for forex, futures, and stock traders, whether they are
short-term or long-term in nature.
FIGURE 8.15
RealTick graphics used with permission of Townsend Analytics, LTD.

c08.qxd 9/25/06 8:38 AM Page 230
230 CANDLESTICK AND PIVOT POINT TRADING TRIGGERS
LOW CLOSE DOJI
The next trading signal is the opposite of the high close doji. It is a setup de-
veloped on the premise that once the market has rallied and established a
high, when a doji forms, it is indicating there is indecision; and once we es-
tablish a lower closing low below the doji’s low, as shown in Figure 8.16,
which establishes that there is a loss in bullish momentum, we can initiate
a short position.
FIGURE 8.16
Characteristics
When the market is in an extended trend to the upside and the market is
overbought, a doji appears, indicating indecision and weakness of buyers to
maintain the upward trend. Pay particular attention if the candle preceding
the doji is a tall white candle, which would be a two-candle pattern called
a bearish harami doji cross. Watch for increased volume, as this also con-
firms a blow-off-top formation.
Trading Rules
When a doji appears, you should:
• Sell on the close or the next time period’s open once a new closinglow
is made from the previous time period’s doji’s low, especially when the
market is against a key pivot point resistance target number.
• Place stops above the highest high point of the initial doji candle. Stops
should be initially placed as a stop-close-only, meaning you do not exit
the trade unless the market closes back above the doji’s high.
• Buy or exit on the open of the first candle after the previous candle
makes a higher closing high than the previous candle.

c08.qxd 9/25/06 8:38 AM Page 231
Setups and Triggers 231
You can use a filter confirming the signal, such as a bearish divergence
stochastic or MACD pattern.
Here is a secondary guideline for the exit and risk management strat-
egy. Get out of half of your positions on the first shift in momentum, which
in a low close doji (LCD) trade would be after the initial trigger. The mar-
ket moves in your favor; and at times we see a consolidation period, simi-
lar to a bear flag formation. Covering your shorts and booking profits on
half of your positions will keep you in a profitable position for the remain-
der of the trade. You initially placed a stop-close-only; but for an intraday
time period, this would have been a mental stop-close-only because most
order platforms do not have that feature for day trading. As the market has
moved in your favor, you can place a hard stop above the doji high. There
will be times when you have to make a judgment on whether the risk is too
excessive by the distance of the proposed entry and the stop-close-only.
Therefore, you may want to scale out of two-thirds of a position at the first
sign you see the trend lose momentum.
Spot Forex Triggers
Let’s examine market price action and how to execute this signal. You
have your predetermined pivot point resistance levels already mapped out
for you. RealTick has the feature that automatically sets the daily pivot
point levels on the charts. Genesis Software has the Person Pivot with
the COMAS triggers programmed in a library feature that highlights
the buy and sell signals with the red and green arrows. Some charting
packages have pivot points available as well. If you do not have either of
these two software packages, you can do an Excel program; or at the very
least, you can use my pivot point calculator included on the CD or on my
web site www.nationalfutures.com to program any market for any time
frame you want. The key is that once you have the predetermined support
and resistance numbers, it is the second variable that is more important,
which is looking for a signal that triggers a call to action. That would be
the LCD signal.
The chart in Figure 8.17 is a spot forex euro currency that shows once
again why it is important to wait for sell signals at resistance rather than
buying breakouts. The euro currency chart shows the market breaking out
above the R-1 level. As a standard rule, I do not like to take buy signals at
resistance (we have covered that in the pivot point section). I would rather
wait for a sell signal to develop and go with the declining momentum. I be-
lieve that one reason why this signal works so well is that many traders are
trying to trade breakouts of pivot point resistance and, therefore, go long
once they see the breakout above the R-1 level. Once there is little follow-
through and prices start to retreat, then they are trapped and scramble to

c08.qxd 9/25/06 8:38 AM Page 232
232 CANDLESTICK AND PIVOT POINT TRADING TRIGGERS
Don’t take buy signals at resistance.
FIGURE 8.17
RealTick graphics used with permission of Townsend Analytics, LTD.
sell to get out of their losing trade. In this example, notice where we have a
moving average crossover—not only do prices close below the doji, but
also below both moving average values.
The trigger to sell short was executed at 118.67, and we saw an imme-
diate reaction as prices plunged. The sequence of events that we want to
see once we are in a short position, as in this example, is lower highs, lower
lows, and the most important lower closing lows. Finally, the market
pauses at 118.30, where we would look to cover half to two-thirds of our po-
sition, banking a quick 37-point (or PIP) gain per position. Now we can
make a decision instead of placing a hard stop above the initial doji high.
We could decide, since the move was a decent distance away from our ini-
tial entry, to place a stop at breakeven on the balance of our position. As the
market enters a consolidation phase, we see that prices never close above
the high of the first reactionary low’s high. That keeps prices contained in
a sideways channel, which is similar to a bear flag formation. As we follow
the flow of the market, notice how the market declines by the end of the
day to the S-2 of 117.80. As a day trader, there is no question on where you
need to exit the position. It is the end of the day, and you have managed a
trade all day and rode a very nice trending market condition.
Using a half-position scale-out method, you obviously need to trade at
least a minimum of two contracts. In this example, when you cover half of

c08.qxd 9/25/06 8:38 AM Page 233
Setups and Triggers 233
your positions at 118.30, you pick up $370 per 100,000 full-size contract. You
can now afford to ride the balance. That generates the bulk of your profits,
as you would be covering the other half of the trade at the 118.00 level for
a 67-PIP gain, or $670. Combined, you have a profit of $1,040 on just a two-
lot position.
In Figure 8.18, I want to look at a textbook setup in the Japanese yen.
This is a 5-minute chart without the pivot point moving averages overlaid to
help you see the progression of the trade and the sequence of the
open/close relationship that candlestick charts display.
As the market advances toward the projected pivot point daily R-2,
traders may assume the market conditions are in a bullish mode. When you
get in that mindset, you tend to forget about looking at the current market
conditions. The top pattern is not a traditional or classic morning doji star
formation because the third candle does not close below the midpoint of
the tall white candle. However, it does close below the doji’s low; that is the
conditional change that takes place giving us the clue that the bullish mo-
mentum has dried up and that a reversal is imminent. First, there is a lower
closing low; then, the market closes below the open; and finally, prices re-
versed direction—all after the market tapped the pivot point resistance
level. Therefore, we want to sell on the close or on the very next time pe-
FIGURE 8.18
Used with permission of esignal.com.

c08.qxd 9/25/06 8:38 AM Page 234
234 CANDLESTICK AND PIVOT POINT TRADING TRIGGERS
riod’s open, placing our stop (initially)as a mental stop-close-only above
the high of the doji, which is 118.18. That is just three PIPs above the daily
pivot point resistance level, too.
Again, what we want to see is almost instant follow-through for the
price to decline. As you can see with this trade, there was immediate fol-
low-through. Notice the progression of the market as it declines from the
entry price at 118.07 straight down to 117.87, for a quick 20-PIP gain. The
market then trades back and forth, creating small-range candles, which
form a sideways channel. If you look carefully at each candle’s close, you
will see that it does not close back above the high of candle that established
the first reactionary low. As a trader, you may want to hold all positions at
this time or at least cover half of your positions for small gain. One reason
to do that is because, as powerful and reliable as these triggers are, we still
do not know how far prices can or will actually move. Remember that the
patterns recur; the outcome is what is different each time.
The markets could easily reverse back and challenge the highs. By tak-
ing money out of the market immediately on half of your positions, you
have profits; and more important, you reduce your risk exposure in
the market.
Always remember that every time you are in the market, you face risk.
So by establishing a profit and following the flow of the market, you can
manage the balance of your trade with less stress, knowing you have made
money. See how the candles in Figure 8.18 show the true direction of the
market: The dark candles reflect closes below the open. For the most part,
there are more of the dark, or negative assigned, candles, which are estab-
lishing lower closing lows, than there are white, or positive assigned, can-
dles. Not only do they have smaller ranges, but they do not make higher
closing highs. This shows that every time the market rallies just a little bit,
sellers are present. Long real-body, or negative assigned, candles represent
sellers, who dominate this market. Therefore, staying short on the balance
of the position is warranted. Now, as the market price disintegrates,
demonstrating the conviction of sellers, we can place a hard stop at
breakeven on the balance of the position and start to adjust the stop to pro-
tect profits accordingly. This is what managing the trade is about and what
we will go over in Chapter 9.
As a short-term trader, it is imperative to trade with the current flow or
momentum of the market. Because there are so many variables that can in-
fluence your trading decisions, using the methods described here will help
you keep focused and will alleviate the problem of trading on emotional
impulses.
When you are armed with what the potential resistance levels are, then
once you identify a low close doji signal and then apply trade management
techniques, you can certainly increase your chances to consistently capture

c08.qxd 9/25/06 8:38 AM Page 235
Setups and Triggers 235
profits. It is literally up to you to pull the money out of the markets. In Fig-
ure 8.19, we have a 10-minute chart, just to illustrate that dojis form on var-
ious time frames as well. As you can see, the market starts to rally and
closes above the pivot point resistance. By not allowing emotions to inter-
fere with your better judgment, just by applying one mechanical rule—do
not take buy signals at resistance—you will have eliminated the greed fac-
tor that often causes a trader to chase after a market. Therefore, just wait,
and practice patience to look for a sell signal to develop. As you can see in
Figure 8.19, after the long white candle forms, a doji forms. Then, as the
method dictates, you do not enter a short position until you see confirma-
tion of a breakdown in the bullish momentum by a lower closing low below
the doji’s low. Once that occurs, you enter a short position on the close of
that period or on the next open. Remember that this does not tell you how
much money you will make on each trade. Every outcome is different.
There is a strong possibility that, based on historic reference, you should
see a decline in prices; the question is by how much.
In this chart, you see an immediate reaction, as you would have en-
tered a short from 122.94; and the bears take over almost immediately.
There is a sequence of lower highs, lower lows, and lower closing lows. In
Stop-close
,
FIGURE 8.19
Used with permission of esignal.com.

c08.qxd 9/25/06 8:38 AM Page 236
236 CANDLESTICK AND PIVOT POINT TRADING TRIGGERS
fact, using the moving averages, notice the confirmation of a negative
crossover and prices closing below the moving averages. This short-term
downtrend ends when you see a change in conditions once the moving av-
erages cross back up and prices start to close above both moving average
values. This is a sign that the negative momentum, or selling pressure, is
fading and that it is time to exit your position. Also, notice that a doji forms
at the bottom of this downturn; it is the candle that closes above the doji’s
high that makes you commit to exiting all positions. This trade results only
in an 11-PIP gain; but not all outcomes will be grand-slam home runs. The
key is in being able to identify true conditional changes that will make you
act on facts, triggering a call to action by a set of rules rather than by emo-
tional impulses. If you have the discipline to trade by a set of rules and to
follow those rules, you will reap some juicy trading profits consistently
over a long period of time.
Triggers on Futures Markets
Let’s look at implementing a confluence of pivot points and see how the
market behaves at these longer-term resistance projections. In Figure 8.20,
we have the daily, weekly, and monthly numbers all concentrating near 115
in the bonds. This chart is a 5-minute time period that illustrates again why
it is important to look for sell signals at resistance and for buy signals at
support.
Many traders fail to see the bigger picture and get caught up in the ex-
citement of a trending market condition. As prices trade above the daily R-
2 pivot point, some traders look at their R-3 numbers and think they are on
a “cash cow” train ride that will never stop climbing higher. By examining
the higher-degree time periods, such as the weekly and monthly numbers,
you can get a better idea that the market may soon run out of steam as there
is hidden resistance from longer-term pivot analysis. Practicing discipline
by not following the herd mentality and demonstrating patience to wait for
a sell signal will lead to a more fruitful opportunity.
As you can see, once the market closes below the double doji forma-
tions triggering a short position, the moving averages cross and the market
closes below both values. Once again, here is the market reaction as bulls
scramble to sell out their longs. The trigger to sell short was 11428⁄ , and the
32
market plunged to 11415⁄ , for a quick 13⁄ -point decline (each point is $31.25),
32 32
or a gain of nearly $400 per position. Notice how the market pauses or con-
solidates forming a bear flag. Here is where tightening your stops and cov-
ering half or two-thirds of your positions would again come into action and
be a wise and profitable decisison.
The LCD signal works on most active markets, as long as there is
volatility and price movement. In late 2005, as commodity markets came

c08.qxd 9/25/06 8:38 AM Page 237
Setups and Triggers 237
FIGURE 8.20
RealTick graphics used with permission of Townsend Analytics, LTD.
alive, the Chicago Board of Trade’s electronic gold contract allowed easy
access to take advantage of some pretty good intraday moves. With the sta-
tistical study done in Chapter 7, it makes good sense to diversify in other
markets that respond to certain technical patterns, such as dojis, hammers,
and shooting stars. It is also rewarding to see how robust this method is, as
it works in no- to low-correlation market relationships and in various time
periods. In Figure 8.21, as bullish as gold was in 2005, there were periods of
consolidation. No market ever goes straight up. A sector or market segment
trading with such high interest as gold attracted many traders. In this ex-
ample, a sell signal was triggered at 559.70, and we started to see a pro-
gression of price deterioration down to the pivot support of 544.00.
Utilizing the stock index futures is one of the better markets for day
traders, as we have discussed. The low close doji trigger is a highly effec-
tive pattern in these markets. Figure 8.22 displays the e-mini–Standard &
Poor’s (S&P) on a 15-minute candle chart illustrating an entry based on the
close below the doji low, a negative crossover from the moving averages,
and confirmation that prices closed below both moving average values.
Here we have a trigger to sell short at 1239.25. Prices continue to follow
the same progression of a pause or consolidation, and then continuation of

c08.qxd 9/25/06 8:38 AM Page 238
238 CANDLESTICK AND PIVOT POINT TRADING TRIGGERS
FIGURE 8.21
RealTick graphics used with permission of Townsend Analytics, LTD.
FIGURE 8.22
Used with permission of esignal.com.

c08.qxd 9/25/06 8:38 AM Page 239
Setups and Triggers 239
the downtrend resumes. During the consolidation period, notice that
prices do not close above the high of the last reactionary low point. In fact,
notice the doji as the sideways channel develops; prices do not close
above that high either.
The low close doji pattern, when combined with the three elements
using pivot point analysis, is a very effective trading system. You are not
simply relying on predicting a top, but rather waiting to see a conditional
change occur in the market. By following the flow of the markets—lower
highs, lower lows, and lower closing lows—you can really stay in the trade
and, more important, on the right side of the market. Examine Figure 8.23,
which is a 5-minute chart on the CBOT mini-Dow contract. You will notice
that it is not the same chart as in Figures 8.19, 8.20, or 8.22 and that the sig-
nals are triggered at different points in time and in different time periods,
just to prove the frequency and effectiveness of this pattern. Here we see
the market trade up just past the daily projected pivot resistance target.
While the high was actually formed by a shooting star, the real trigger to
sell occurred at the time period that established a close below the doji’s
low. Notice the three elements that help confirm a trend reversal: price
close below both moving average values and the two moving average com-
ponents crossed, with the short-term moving average below the longer-
FIGURE 8.23
Used with permission of esignal.com.

c08.qxd 9/25/06 8:38 AM Page 240
240 CANDLESTICK AND PIVOT POINT TRADING TRIGGERS
term moving average. The trigger to sell short occurred at 10523, and the
exit was confirmed with the high close doji signal at 10483, for a tidy gain
of 40 Dow points, or $200 per contract, based on a day trading margin of
$500. (Day trading margins vary; initial margin requirements to hold a fu-
tures position overnight is $2,632 as of 2/1/2006.) That is a trade setup I
watch and wait for, day in and day out; and it works on most markets in
most time periods.
The low close doji setup combined with pivot points and the moving
average component really allows you to see the change in price momentum.
As a screen-based day or swing trader, you have superior advantage over
floor traders or other traders when using charts, pivot points, and the pro-
gression of a moving average component. In Figure 8.24, we have a 60-
minute e-mini–S&P chart showing the price deteriorating once the trigger
was made by a close below the doji low. Notice, too, that the moving aver-
ages crossed and prices closed below the moving averages as well. This sig-
nals a trigger to sell short at 1278; and by the end of the day, the market was
at 1264. There was never a signal to exit the short position, which resulted
in a 14-point gain, or $700 per contract. Now, this is over 140 percent gain
on a 500 margin in a single day.
FIGURE 8.24
Used with permission of esignal.com.

c08.qxd 9/25/06 8:38 AM Page 241
Setups and Triggers 241
Case in Point
Combining the statistical data that we went over in Chapter 7 (which indi-
cated the frequency with which dojis, hammers, and shooting stars form)
with the correlating markets (such as the S&P, the Dow, gold, and cur-
rency) gives you high-performing patterns; and trading using these patterns
should not be ignored. If the markets outlined here have both a high fre-
quency and a strong tendency to form tops and bottoms by the developing
doji candle and if you learn to wait for that specific setup and act on a trig-
ger rather than guessing or anticipating when a market is ready to turn, you
may see a significant improvement in your trading results.
Triggers on Stocks
In Chapter 1, I gave an example of how an exchange traded fund may not
react as much or at all compared to a stock in that group or sector. One
such stock I showed was in Figure 1.15—Toll Brothers. If you broke that
monthly chart down to a weekly and then a daily time frame and used the
combination of the techniques taught so far with pivot point analysis in con-
junction with these specific candle patterns, you would have been alerted
to a top in the market in the summer of 2005.
Why don’t traders act on these signals? Most traders do not realize
what pivot point calculations are and how the markets react to them. The
resistance target levels are “hidden,” meaning you cannot see a projected
high because it is not drawn from a past chart pattern; rather, it is derived
from a mathematical calculation. This gives a projected price expansion on
a measured-increase based on the previous time period’s range according
to the pivot point formula. Using the monthly pivot point method, taking
the trading data for Toll Brothers from June would have helped predict the
high for July. Figure 8.25 shows the Pivot Point Calculator with the high,
the low, and the close from the month of June. Notice that the R-2 target
number was 58.12. The exact high in July was 58.67!
The chart in Figure 8.26 illustrates the low close doji trigger. In addi-
tion, we had the moving averages cross over, and prices traded beneath
both moving averages to help confirm that the market had lost its bullish
momentum.
To some traders, the tall white candle at the top may have appeared to
look like a buying opportunity, especially as the market made a slight cor-
rection. The low close doji against the longer-term monthly pivot point re-
sistance told a different story. Identifying the doji at or near a pivot point is
a great guideline to alert you almost every time that there is a potential
price change or reversal coming. Once the market makes that lower closing

c08.qxd 9/25/06 8:38 AM Page 242
242 CANDLESTICK AND PIVOT POINT TRADING TRIGGERS
FIGURE 8.25
Used with permission of www.nationalfutures.com.
low, that is the trigger to sell. That will hold as a valid statement until the
market closes back above the doji’s high.
The Best Predictive Indicator
The best predictive market analysis tool is the pivot point, especially when
using the higher time periods, such as the monthly and weekly time frames.
We did cover the power of confluence, which should never be ignored.
Using the monthly time frames, any investment vehicle like forex, futures,
and stocks, especially after a market starts to form a doji on a daily chart,

c08.qxd 9/25/06 8:38 AM Page 243
Setups and Triggers 243
FIGURE 8.26
RealTick graphics used with permission of Townsend Analytics, LTD.
is a sure sign that there is a strong possibility that a price or trend change
is about to occur. A great example of using this method to help uncover a
potential disaster in the stock of clothing retailer American Eagle Outfitters
was used in mid-July. Taking the trading data from June as shown in Figure
8.27, the Pivot Point Calculator shows the monthly R-1 was 32.86 and the
R-2 was 35.07. The actual high was 34.04, right in the middle of the target re-
sistance levels.
One thing interesting here is that in Figure 8.28, the variation evening
doji star does create the low close doji setup and indicates that the bullish
momentum, or uptrend, had stopped. However, the market traded in a con-
solidation range for two weeks before the trend reversal occurred. The trig-
ger to go short was not elected because there were two elements missing:
(1) The market did not close below both moving average values; (2) the
shorter-term moving average did not cross below the longer-term moving
average. Those variables came later, as you can see on the chart. But the
fact is that the monthly pivot point kept the market from establishing fur-
ther gains; and the low close doji trigger was a significant warning to exit
longs, buy put options, or at least tighten stops or move stop orders up to
protect profits from long positions. The initiative to sell short was also a

c08.qxd 9/25/06 8:38 AM Page 244
244 CANDLESTICK AND PIVOT POINT TRADING TRIGGERS
FIGURE 8.27
Used with permission of www.nationalfutures.com.
very viable action. Using a stop-close-only above the doji’s high, a trader
would not have been knocked out of the short position at any time.
One of the more popular stocks in 2005, which mystified traders as it
made a stratospheric rise, was Google. Figure 8.29 shows the price move
that many thought would never end. Stock analysts were making upgrades
calling for 600 per share in the first week of January 2006, and some were
claiming as high as 2000. As you can clearly see, the low close doji pattern
foretold of the market top; more important, it traded near the monthly R-2
resistance level of 466.95. Once again, here was a high-profile stock that
formed a major top with an LCD trigger at a monthly pivot point target re-
sistance number.

c08.qxd 9/25/06 8:38 AM Page 245
Setups and Triggers 245
FIGURE 8.28
RealTick graphics used with permission of Townsend Analytics, LTD.
FIGURE 8.29 Google rise
Used with permission of www.GenesisFT.com.

c08.qxd 9/25/06 8:38 AM Page 246
246 CANDLESTICK AND PIVOT POINT TRADING TRIGGERS
FIGURE 8.30
THE JACKHAMMER
In my experience, the one candle pattern that is associated or synonymous
more than any other with the word capitulationis the hammer as Figure
8.30 shows. In Chapter 7, we identified the frequency or the percentage of
times over a course of the year on a 15-minute time interval when the ham-
mer candle pattern formed at or near the low of a given day. The jackham-
mer, however, develops in the middle to the end of the trading session.
Usually immediately following the hammer is a bullish candle, or a mara-
buzo, a tall green positive (+) assigned candle.
What specifically describes the jackhammer? The jackhammerpattern
is a hammer candle, but it occurs in the middle to the end of a trading ses-
sion. I call it “the search and destroy” stop-loss order pattern. The general
market characteristics of this pattern starts off with the market establish-
ing a low, then consolidates or trades sideways for a bit, and then without
warning sells off abruptly. It is generally that particular sell-off that creates
a hammer pattern. Therefore, anyone who had intraday stops too close,
under what is considered the primary low for the day, got “bagged and
tagged.” In other words, stop-loss orders were elected, and longs were
jacked out of their positions and money—as in hit over the head with a billy
club and “jacked”(robbed).
Trading Rules Defined
The jackhammer formation is an extremely powerful intraday reversal for-
mation that requires immediate action to enter a long position. The se-
quence of events that occur for this pattern is:

c08.qxd 9/25/06 8:38 AM Page 247
Setups and Triggers 247
• The hammer formed is a secondary low with the close at or near the
primary low’s low.
• It does not matter whether the real body is formed with a higher close
than open or positive assigned value; however, it is generally a more
solid signal when the close is above the open.
• This action generally completes a bullish convergence in the stochas-
tics or MACD oscillator.
• Buy on the close of the hammer or the next time periods’ open; initial
risk is a regularstop below the hammer’s low.
• Give additional importance if this pattern develops near pivot point
support targets, especially if there is a confluence of pivot support tar-
gets from different time frames.
• Stock traders should watch for an increase or a volume spike, which in-
dicates an exhaustion bottom is confirmed.
Figure 8.31 shows a 5-minute chart on the CBOT mini-Dow. Notice that
the “midsession” is defined by the middle of the day. The first intraday low
has been established, nearly three hours pass by, and the market makes a
nosedive as prices hit a new low for the trading session. In this example, the
hammer closes back within the primary low’s range. The trigger to go long
is on the hammer’s close or on the open once the hammer formation is con-
FIGURE 8.31
Used with permission of esignal.com.

c08.qxd 9/25/06 8:38 AM Page 248
248 CANDLESTICK AND PIVOT POINT TRADING TRIGGERS
firmed. Generally, the jackhammer is followed by a blast-off secondary
candle as prices surge ahead. What we also have happen is that the market
crosses above both moving average values, thus signaling confirmation that
this is a valid buy signal. The trigger to buy was at 10393; as you can see, the
market ran straight to 10473 before giving an LCD trigger to exit at 10443
for a 50-point Dow move, or $250 per contract.
So far in this book, I have given you several patterns that work well for
great day trading vehicles, such as the stock index futures contracts. The
electronic markets offer retail traders a competitive advantage because
they can use a home computer with a DSL or a broadband connection to in-
tegrate charting software packages and equal access to markets. The stock
index futures contract, such as the mini-Dow contract, has what technical
and fundamental traders need: News-driven events and other technical
trading market participants both provide volatility and liquidity. Many of
the chart examples contained in these pages are a great representation of
an average day’s trading patterns. That’s not to say the other stock index
markets, such as the e-mini–S&P and the Russell, perform differently; they
interact extremely well with each other. In fact, at times I may have a trig-
ger in the mini-Dow and take the trade in the S&P, and vice versa. Most
times, when the Dow gives me a trigger, that is the market I will trade in.
Consider that the e-mini–S&P have an influence from the tech sector. Dow
at times may or may not have a similar dollar value move as the S&P. Both
markets are great day trading vehicles, as is the Russell. The Dow more
times than not has more distinct trading signals; for that reason, I have il-
lustrated these setups with using the Dow.
As another example of spotting a jackhammer pattern, look at Figure
8.32, which is another 5-minute chart in the Dow. Here you see the sec-
ondary low bounce right off a pivot point support; and as the white or pos-
itive assigned values show, the candles’ closes are above the opens and
what is indicated immediately after the hammer forms. Notice the immedi-
ate reaction of the market as the sequence of higher highs, higher lows, and
higher closing highs occurs. You can also see confirmation of the buy sig-
nal with the moving averages crossing over and with the second candle
after the hammer is formed—it closes above both moving average values.
This is the confirmation that should give you the confidence to maintain a
long position. The stop is initially placed below the hammer’s low. This
should notbe a stop-close-only as this setup should see an immediate pos-
itive reaction. The trigger to go long here was at 10935; the first sign that
the bullish drive lost momentum was the lower closing low at 10965, which
resulted in a quick 30-point gain.
There are times when we see this pattern late in the trading session.
But keep in mind that the CBOT Dow contract trades continuously until 4

c08.qxd 9/25/06 8:38 AM Page 249
Setups and Triggers 249
FIGURE 8.32
RealTick graphics used with permission of Townsend Analytics, LTD.
P.M.(CT), whereas the e-mini–S&P closes at 3:15 P.M.(CT) and reopens at
3:30 P.M. (CT). This offers day traders more time to play those short
squeeze plays that tend to occur toward the end of the day. More important,
I covered why I do not look to sell at support levels. These short squeeze
plays occur as those who may have sold at higher levels look to cover and
take profits, as we see at certain times when the secondary low was re-
jected, which is what the hammer represents. Prices tend to move sharply
higher in a very short period of time, signifying a rejection of lower prices.
It is that price action that shows buyers attracted to the market, and bears
start buying back or covering their shorts.
Therefore, when you are looking for a pattern such as the high close
doji or the jackhammer in this situation, it is a more fruitful venture. One
great example is in Figure 8.33, where the jackhammer forms near the end
of the session. The trigger to go long was at 10784, which we see as almost
an immediate reaction for prices to move sharply higher to nearly 10830.
This was another quick 40-point-plus gain, or $200 per contract. Again,
this does not sound like big money; but when you consider that the day
trading margin is $500 at most online brokerage firms, that is a healthly
percentage gain.

c08.qxd 9/25/06 8:38 AM Page 250
250 CANDLESTICK AND PIVOT POINT TRADING TRIGGERS
FIGURE 8.33
RealTick graphics used with permission of Townsend Analytics, LTD.
Trading Tips
• If the stop level is too great a distance, lower or reduce your contract
size.
• Place hard stop below the low of the hammer candle.
• Scale out of positions when the market gives you a windfall profit, and
move stops on balance of position above your entry price.
Bullish Convergence Pattern
In Chapter 4, we went over how the market price makes lower lows, but not
by significant measures, and that when prices are at oversold extremes, we
should be cautious for market reversals. We went over the market condi-
tion of bullish convergence and how to use the stochastics and MACD in-
dicators to confirm buy signals when that market condition exists. The
jackhammer is a formation that seems to be present in such a situation.
Therefore, it is a great method for setting up a potential buy signal once the
pattern is confirmed. Look at Figure 8.34, which is a 5-minute chart on the

c08.qxd 9/25/06 8:38 AM Page 251
Setups and Triggers 251
FIGURE 8.34
Used with permission of esignal.com.
e-mini–S&P 500 futures. As you see, the midsession of the trading day at
12:30 shows on the charts that the market takes a secondary decline, form-
ing that spike bottom hammer pattern. Notice that the very next candle
after the hammer is a tall engulfing candle that forms a higher high. Prices
then continue on in the sequence of higher highs, higher lows, and higher
closing highs, while continuosly trading above the moving averages. If you
examine the stochastics at the bottom of the chart, notice that when the
price made a new lower low, the reading from the stochastics made a
higher low, identifying that bullish convergence existed. If you watched for
the stochastics to close back above the 20 percent line to confirm the price
reversal and the trigger to go long, you would have had a stress-free trade
that resulted in immediate returns.
In Figure 8.35, you see another example of the e-mini–S&P, this time
with the aid of the MACD study. The jackhammer occurs past the midses-
sion and actually closer to the close of business. Here we see both the mov-
ing average and the histogram components alerting us to the fact that the
price action was oversold and that a reversal was likely. The one-two com-
bination of the jackhammer and then the bullish engulfing pattern revealed
a forthcoming price reversal.

c08.qxd 9/25/06 8:38 AM Page 252
252 CANDLESTICK AND PIVOT POINT TRADING TRIGGERS
FIGURE 8.35
Used with permission of esignal.com.
Stocks Get Jacked, Too
The psychological aspect of this formation occurs in stocks as well. Believe
me, they are not immune to the ravages of human emotion. The example in
Figure 8.36 is Comcast Corporation and is a great illustration of how the
stochastics indicator confirms that the jackhammer, or secondary low buy
signal, was triggered as confirmed with a bullish convergence signal. The
fast stochastics indicator shows the timing of both %K and %D closed back
above the 20 percent line, confirming a bottom was in place. The trigger to
go long here is on the close of the hammer at 26.63; and before the close at
4 P.M.(ET), the market price is at 26.84.
The Jackhammer’s One-Two Punch
Figure 8.37 shows a 30-minute chart on United Technologies that illus-
trates, depending on the time period, that the jackhammer pattern can exist
from one day to the next, like a one-two knockout punch that attacks the
stops and immediately pops up. Since many traders look at the obvious low
point to place their stop-loss order, as this example shows, the jackhammer
took out the prior day’s low; and then once again, the one-two pattern de-
velops with the hammer and then the next candle being the tall white, or

c08.qxd 9/25/06 8:38 AM Page 253
Setups and Triggers 253
FIGURE 8.36
RealTick graphics used with permission of Townsend Analytics, LTD.
FIGURE 8.37
RealTick graphics used with permission of Townsend Analytics, LTD.

c08.qxd 9/25/06 8:38 AM Page 254
254 CANDLESTICK AND PIVOT POINT TRADING TRIGGERS
bullish, engulfing candle. This starts the immediate price reversal, with the
sequence of higher highs, higher lows, and higher closing highs. See how
the market also closes above and continuously trades above both the mov-
ing average values.
If you know what to look for, trading for a living is a great opportunity;
but with opportunity comes responsibility. Prior to entering a trade, you
should have your “pregame” setup, complete with your market analysis and
rules for entering a trade. Certain rules should start with the techniques
covered in this book so far, which include:
• Identifying what the market condition is—overbought or oversold bull-
ish, bearish, or neutral.
• Identifying the levels that the pivot points lines are at, using the various
time frames—monthly, weekly, and daily periods.
• Setting up your charting software parameters with these specific pivot
points moving average values.
• Experimenting with variation settings on your own.
Then you need to watch and identify when and at what price points the
dojis, hammers, and shooting stars develop. Knowledge of these items will
arm you with critical information that can help provide protection from
overtrading as well as from adverse moves and such pitfalls as reacting on
emotions rather than on actual trading signals.
SUMMARY
The method of market analysis described in this book is designed so you
will be educated on the importance of developing your personal trading
system and so you can apply the techniques on a consistent basis, which
will allow you to make decisions in a mechanical and nonemotional way.
Common mistakes that traders make are not testing a strategy and not mak-
ing a logical determination of whether the strategy is viable for their trad-
ing style. Many traders adopt a new strategy, trade with it, and immediately
start tweaking different components of the strategy. The best approach
that I have found in trading is to establish trading rules and to test those
rules until an outcome is determined based on a reasonable number of
trades. Also, I have several different trading strategies for different markets
or conditions. The high close doji, the low close doji, and the jackhammer
patterns are just a few of my proprietary setups that I watch for meeting
these conditions.
If you are in a declining market, once an apparent bottom occurs near

c08.qxd 9/25/06 8:38 AM Page 255
Setups and Triggers 255
a pivot point support target, watch for the high close doji or the jackham-
mer pattern to develop. In a rising trend, once the market trades at or near
a projected pivot point resistance, watch for a low close doji or a shooting
star pattern. These specific patterns can be added to your personal toolbox
of setups or used exclusively as a day trading plan. By understanding the
current market conditions (uptrend, downtrend, or sideways), you can
heighten your awareness of specific patterns that can be applied to that
trading environment. All that is left after entering a position is risk and
trade management, which is the focus of the next chapter.

c08.qxd 9/25/06 8:38 AM Page 256

c09.qxd 9/25/06 8:40 AM Page 257
CHAPTER 9
Risk Management
Setting Stops
T
his chapter will walk you through the various types of stop orders
and when and where to place them. It will also provide a great deal of
important information on the reasons for stop orders, the type of
stops that should be placed at critical price levels, and identifying these spe-
cific price levels. If a trader is to maintain a degree of profitability over time,
managing risk and using a system that helps evaluate price changes are es-
sential. When you have finished this chapter, you will understand how to se-
lect stops to limit your potential losses and how to let profits ride.
The process in selecting stop placement as a risk management tool
starts with the price of where the trade was initiated. Here are some finer
points on the rationale for using a risk method, or having a stop-loss system
in place.
• Predetermined stops help conquer emotional interference.
• Stops should be part of a system or included in a set of trading rules.
• The risk/reward ratio should be weighed before entering trades, and a
stop objective should be set.
• When volatility is low, stops can be placed closer to an entry level.
• When volatility is high, stops should be placed further away from entry
level.
One of my favorite bits of advice that I give students and have taught at
seminars is that the first rule of trading starts with the premise that it is
okay to form an opinion on a gut, or instinctive, feeling—just act on a trade
257

c09.qxd 9/25/06 8:40 AM Page 258
258 CANDLESTICK AND PIVOT POINT TRADING TRIGGERS
signal that substantiates that opinion. Write your rules down and have
them posted on your trading screen on your computer. Before you enter
the trade, check your rule list; and make sure you know why, where, and
what type of stop to place. As you gain more experience in the business,
you will undoubtedly get caught in a news-driven, price-shock event, that is,
if you have not already experienced one. These are unavoidable and hard to
escape unscathed. It is considered a cost of doing business and should not
reflect on your abilities as a trader. Managing risk is your job, and captur-
ing as much profit as possible from winning trades should be your utmost
goal. The descriptions of the types of stops and the pros and cons of each
should help you make the right decision for the various circumstances or
market conditions.
PLACING STOP ORDERS
Stop orders are often referred to as a protection method against losses.
These orders can also be placed to enter positions. Specifically, a stop
order is an order that you place either through a broker or online. If the
market trades at a certain price, then the order is triggered and becomes a
market order to be filled at the next best available price. The general rules
of stop placement are:
• Buy stops are placed above the current market price.
• Sell stops are placed below the current market price.
GENERAL USES OF STOP ORDERS
This chapter will focus on protective stops used to offset a position and to
protect against losses and against accrued profits. You can also use a stop
to enter a position. There are a variety of stops that can be used depending
on your situation, the market you are trading, and what you are trying to ac-
complish. There are various types of available stops and several techniques
that can be used with these stops to help you manage your position and re-
duce your overall risk.
• Dollar Limits. Stops can be based on a dollar amount per position.
The dollar amount is categorized under money management for trading
systems. If you are risking $250 per futures contract in an e-mini–
Standard & Poor’s (S&P) contract, then your stop level would be
placed at a five-point distance from your entry price. This method is

c09.qxd 9/25/06 8:40 AM Page 259
Risk Management 259
used less frequently by professional traders because it has no relevancy
to a mechanical trading model, especially systems that are in the mar-
ket all the time, such as a moving average system. However, there are
benefits to this feature with setting a daily dollar amount on a loss limit
for active day traders. Some electronic order platforms allow you to set
a daily loss limit. Rather than per trade, it sets an overall loss limit on
your account.
• Percentage Figures. Most traders hear of using a stop of a certain per-
centage of the overall account size. Generally speaking, that number
can be 2 percent up to as much as 5 percent of the overall account. Un-
fortunately for most traders in futures or foreign exchange (forex) mar-
kets, the average size trading account is $10,000, which means the stop
is $200 to $500 dollars per trade. This leaves little room for error. Nor-
mally, you want to use at least a two-to-one risk/reward ratio on your
trades. So if you risk 5 percent on a $10,000 account, you should expect
to risk $500 and make $1,000 per trade.
• Time Factors. After a specific time period, if the price does not move
in the expected direction or if the velocity of such a move does not war-
rant holding onto the position, then exit the trade. If you see a low
close doji (LCD) or a high close doji (HCD) signal, it is my experience
that the market generally demonstrates an immediate reaction within
two or four time periods. After a long period of the market not re-
sponding to this type of signal, liquidate the position. The timing of the
trade did not correspond with the historical tendency and did not gen-
erate the desired results in a given period.
Another consideration in the art of placing stops using a time ele-
ment is the aid of a moving average. A moving average is simply a
trend line that is considered a time-driven price-directional tool. One
time factor that one can use as a stop placement method is the
crossover point of reference created when using two moving average
values. Once the shorter-term moving average crosses the longer-term
moving average, it reflects a value change in the market. In Figure 9.1,
once the market triggers a signal to go long with the high close doji,
combining a close below doji low and the crossover point (using both
the one-period pivot point and the three-period pivot point moving av-
erages) can act as a stop placement level. Once again, you would want
to look at the point of crossover of the two moving average values; and
if the market closes below the low of the doji’s low and the moving av-
erage (M/A) values, then a trigger to exit the position would be war-
ranted. As you can see, a bullish trend develops with the golden
sequence of events: higher highs, higher lows, and higher closing highs.
The stop-loss was placed at a critical point.
• Price Levels. Traders often use basic statistics to measure the degree

c09.qxd 9/25/06 8:40 AM Page 260
260 CANDLESTICK AND PIVOT POINT TRADING TRIGGERS
FIGURE 9.1
Used with permission of esignal.com.
of price volatility that can occur on a daily basis in a given market.
These measures can then be used to place a stop order or a limit order
that takes into account these natural daily price movements. Statistics
that are often used are the mean, the standard deviation, and the co-
efficient of variation. The best trailing-stop approach has been ex-
plored by many technicians. The various methods include placing a
stop using a set price amount, which could be as much as 50 percent of
the average true range of a given time period, either above or below the
10- or 20-day moving average.
Why is this an important method? If you place a stop near a specific
chart point of interest, such as an old high or an old low, that level is
obvious to every chart watcher. Markets do “test” and penetrate from
time to time those levels. If you set your stop too close, such as setting
a sell stop below an old low point or a buy stop above an old price high,
chances are that your order may be executed if it is too close, such as
what the jackhammer or shooting star represents. So generally, a cer-
tain factor or distance should be calculated for your stop placement.
Since most traders believe a market has reached a peak, they will place

c09.qxd 9/25/06 8:40 AM Page 261
Risk Management 261
a stop slightly above an old high or below an old low. Depending on
where you place your stop, the market may demonstrate a spike pat-
tern that will hit your order and then proceed to move in the desired di-
rection, without you, of course. Figure 9.2 shows an example of when
the market is at a major turning point, how a price spike occurs. You
may want to take the average daily range of the most recent 10 or more
periods and then use a factor between 20 percent and 50 percent of the
10-day average daily range. When entering a short position you would
use a protective buy stop based on a percentage above the 10-day av-
erage range. For example, if you take the average daily range for the 10
trading sessions from the low back on October 12 up to the first peak
on October 25, you have an average daily range for that 10-day period
of 174 PIPs (percentage in points), or points. The first spike top ex-
ceeded the prior high by 34 PIPs.
If you established a short position and wanted to place your stop
out of harm’s way, then using a stop of 20 percent of 174 PIPs above the
predetermined high would not have worked out, as that was 34 PIPs,
the exact amount by which the market exceeded the high. If you in-
FIGURE 9.2
Used with permission of esignal.com.

c09.qxd 9/25/06 8:40 AM Page 262
262 CANDLESTICK AND PIVOT POINT TRADING TRIGGERS
creased the stop amount by 50 percent of the 10-day average daily
range, then you would have an 87-point stop above the high; and this
would have kept you from getting stopped out. By using 120 percent of
the average of the last 10-day period range, this method would accom-
plish the goal of not getting stopped out. Realistically, that may be way
too much risk for an individual trader. But examine the risk/reward
ratio on that particular trade. A risk of 150 percent of the average daily
range from the most recent 10-day period would have been 261 PIPs.
The stop would be placed above the high on October 25 at 181.30. The
low was at 170.65, made nearly one month later on November 22.
Granted, depending on your risk tolerance, this may seem excessive;
but you can select and back-test any percentage variable of an average
daily range stop placement.
The key idea here is to keep your stops out of harm’s way. If a
trade is to become profitable, there should be signs, such as in the case
of selling short, that you see immediate results with lower highs, lower
lows, and lower closing lows. Even in the days where we see spike
highs or spike lows, notice where the market closes in relation to their
respective highs and lows. The price penetrates the highs but closes
back below the prior highs. The reverse is true at the spike lows. This
is a good clue that the market has exhausted a trend and is ready to re-
verse. Keeping a stop out of harm’s way will allow you to participate in
the move using a variation of an average daily range stop placement.
• Conditional Changes. A conditional change is defined as a higher
closing high in a downtrend or a lower closing low in an uptrend. Such
as the case with a spike top, the market does not close above an old
high. Therefore, one factor such as the stop-close-only order will be of
great use to a trader not looking to get bumped out of a position. There
is, as with any stop, the unknown risk that there is not a guaranteed
price at which your stop order will be filled. This order has a negative
connotation among traders because it spells too much risk. A buy stop
will be elected and will knock you out of a position if the market closes
above the stop price; and a sell stop will be elected and will knock you
out of your position if the close is below your selected price level. The
unknown is how far away the market will close from the selected stop
price. The key benefit in using a stop-close-only order is that it keeps
your risk defined to a conditional change and helps you from getting
knocked out of a position from intraperiod volatility. Stop-close-only
orders (SCOs) are for end-of-day trading and can be placed on most
trading platforms. The SCOs can be used for day trading; however, they
must be used manually, as most platforms do not accept intraday
SCOs. Some consider these mental stops, which are predefined risk
factors. However, many traders violate the rules once a signal calls for

c09.qxd 9/25/06 8:40 AM Page 263
Risk Management 263
an exit but they do not exit, thereby increasing their losses. A trader
needs to have a strict disciplinary approach.
The challenge in selecting the right stop is to reduce risk while not
being shaken out of the trade by market volatility. It is important to try
to maximize your trading results and to stay in profitable trades as long
as possible. Employing random stop-losses and profit targets can ruin
a trading strategy, making it perform significantly worse than it would
have otherwise. One successful method is to use trailing stops that
adapt to market volatility so that the stop is placed far enough away,
which combines enough sensitivity to price changes with flexibility to
fit your risk/reward parameters. Using this combination may provide
profitable consistency from a stop-placement aspect for the intermedi-
ate-term trader. The trailing stop is used as an attempt to lock in some
of the paper profits that could accrue should the market move in the di-
rection desired. Like an ordinary stop, the trailing stop is started at
some initial value but then is moved up (in a long trade) or down (in a
short trade) as the market moves in your favor.
Testing has demonstrated that a proper combination of even simple
exit methods, such as placing a stop below the low of the prior past two
trading sessions, can substantially improve the behavior of a trading
strategy, even turning a random, losing strategy into a profitable one!
Another less complicated method to use for a bullish trending mar-
ket condition is placing a stop below the lowest low from the most re-
cent 10-day period. Another method is a trailing stop method using the
lowest low from the last conditional change. I define the last condi-
tional changeas a higher closing high. This is a much more important
event than a higher high. Buyers who stepped in on the open have a
strong conviction that price should expand to new higher territory
once the market established a new high ground. Therefore, if the lows
are violated, then the market is demonstrating weakness. In Figure 9.3,
we are looking at the daily chart on gold. Starting from the low on No-
vember 4 near 465, the market does not make a lower closing low. On
December 1, we see a close at a doji low but not below the low of the
doji. The trend then continues higher with a sequence of higher highs,
higher lows, and higher closing highs.
It is not until the shooting star develops that the intermediate top
is made. A stop placed beneath the low of the candle prior to the star
would be the last conditional change or the last higher closing high
that occurred. That would be where you would want to place a sell
stop. Using the two-period lowest-low method, you would have been
stopped out at 528. If you used a stop-close-only below that low, your
fill was the next time period’s close; and that was not as friendly or as
profitable, as the market closed at 514. However, using the lowest low

c09.qxd 9/25/06 8:40 AM Page 264
264 CANDLESTICK AND PIVOT POINT TRADING TRIGGERS
FIGURE 9.3
Used with permission of esignal.com.
for the most recent 10 periods, your stop-out point was all the way
down at 497.
Let’s examine this method with a day trade using a chart example
on the spot forex British pound market from 2/6/2006 using a 15-minute
time frame. Figure 9.4 shows a low close doji trigger to sell short at
176.07. The initial stop per the LCD trigger states to use a stop-close-
only above the doji high. That would be 176.28. As you can see, the mar-
ket stalls in a traditional sideways channel, as forex markets are known
to do. But, sticking with your trading rules, as the market starts to de-
teriorate, you would change the stop from a stop-close-only to a regu-
lar stop one tick above the high of the second conditional lower closing
low candle. You now have the option to move stops above the highs
of the last reactionary high points; and if you follow the trail of the
market, you will notice the high from the last conditional lower closing
low. This failed reactionary high was the perfect spot to move your
stop down to just one PIP above that high point. At the end of the run,
you want to trail the stop to the point one PIP above the high of the

c09.qxd 9/25/06 8:40 AM Page 265
Risk Management 265
FIGURE 9.4
Used with permission of esignal.com.
second-to-last candle that made a conditional change, which would be
a lower closing low.
Let’s explore this method further for day traders in the stock index
futures. Figure 9.5 shows a 15-minute candle pattern showing another
low close doji trigger to sell short. The fill would be 1279.25, and the ini-
tial stop would be a mental stop-close-only above the doji high at
1283.5. As we want to see when short, immediate results materialize
with the sequence of events such as lower highs, lower lows, and, best
of all, lower closing lows. We now have the option to change and trail
a hard stop above the high of the second conditional change candle.
Here, a conditional change is a candle that makes a lower closing low.
Prices now decline to 1270.75; we have over an eight-point gain, or $400
per contract. We can do several things, such as taking profits on half of
our positions, because the market has reached a move equal to the av-
erage daily range from the most recent 10 trading days, or moving stops
down to lock in profits and letting our winners ride. We should now
place a trailing stop above the high of the last conditional change or an
SCO to exit the balance of positions.

c09.qxd 9/25/06 8:40 AM Page 266
266 CANDLESTICK AND PIVOT POINT TRADING TRIGGERS
FIGURE 9.5
Used with permission of esignal.com.
In this example, you would not have been able to sell the high or
buy the low using a set of trading rules. However, a solid chunk of mid-
dle of that trading session was captured with having little-to-no risk
pressure. The trailing stop method would allow you to stay with the
trade until the bearish conditions changed. The chart in Figure 9.5 is
also a great illustration of how a market moves from a trending condi-
tion to a consolidation phase. Once you have captured the profit, it is
time to wait for another trade setup.
There are many different variations to placing stops. The key is
watching for conditional changes; for example, in a declining market,
you should watch for the last reactionary high as the peak at which to
place a trailing stop once you are in a short position. You should use a
stop-close-only above a conditional change candle especially on a two-
period time count. These methods will help you limit losses, prevent
you from being prematurely knocked out of a trade, and reduce emo-
tional stress, while capitalizing on letting your winning trades ride.

c09.qxd 9/25/06 8:40 AM Page 267
Risk Management 267
THE BOTTOM LINE
The bottom line is this: Stops are not for sissies. You just need to know
when changes in a market’s condition occur to help determine when to exit
a trade. If you are in a trending condition for too long, chances are that you
may be overextending your welcome; therefore, tightening stops is a good
way to protect profits. After all, it really counts most when you get out of
the trade. All traders struggle with stop placements. There is no one single
best method. The concept is to develop a consistent method that helps you
define cutting your losses and letting winners ride.

c09.qxd 9/25/06 8:40 AM Page 268

c10.qxd 9/25/06 8:41 AM Page 269
CHAPTER 10
Projecting Entry
and Exit Points
Learn to Scale Out
W
hat are some of the most important things that successful traders
do? They have:
• A system or a method that provides an accurate daily market forecast,
helping them define where the market might go each day.
• A set of rules for when to get in and out of the market and a bit of dis-
cipline to follow these rules.
• A set of timing indicators to help them pull the trigger at the key areas.
The legendary basketball coach Bob Knight often says, “Most people
have the will to win; few people have the will to prepare to win.” This is true
in many aspects of a person’s life, be it in athletics, academics, business, a
profession, or trading.
Trading is about making money, not about being correct in market
analysis or being a great prognosticator. Traders must be consistent in their
approach and strive to completely remove emotion from trading decisions.
This is often best achieved by having and sticking to a plan for every trade.
We trade in the futuremarkets, not in the pastmarkets. Hindsight is always
20/20. Keep in mind that you will never trade as well in real time with real
money as you will by looking at or trading in the past. Trading in the past is
an exercise in futility that will only harm your psyche going forward. You
should view every trade you make as the best trade you could make at the
time with the information available. That is why I like to scale out of my po-
sitions as a short-term trader at market points that signal when a trend has
269

c10.qxd 9/25/06 8:41 AM Page 270
270 CANDLESTICK AND PIVOT POINT TRADING TRIGGERS
a loss in momentum. The reason I like to keep a portion of positions on is
simple: As good as my triggers can be, I cannot predict the future. I do not
know if a market will develop into a consolidation phase or if it is simply
pausing before continuing the trend or getting ready to reverse the trend en-
tirely. Therefore, it is crucial to take money off the table when given the op-
portunity, while letting a trade mature and potentially develop into a larger
profit. There is only one way I know to manage such a feat, and that is by
scaling out of partial positions. The question some traders ask is, “What is
the formula or percentage that I use to take positions off?” I normally use
the 50 percent rule, but at times the one-third rule works as well. In order
to define what the percentage figure is, I need to judge what condition the
market is in. I do that by using the diagnosis described in this book. In the
trade process, there are three critical stages:
1. Gathering information on which to make decisions.
2. Using that information to help formulate a trading idea.
3. Planning the actions to be taken.
The gathering of information involves collecting past data and then ap-
plying it to a specific means of market analysis, such as what I have covered
in this book using pivot point analysis. In formulating ideas, you may look
at the pivot point moving averages to help determine a market’s ability to
make a certain price range. This step helps you to predict where the market
might head and then gives you information so that you can decide where it
should be going. Planning action involves thinking creatively about alter-
native courses of action, evaluating their feasibility, and making decisions
on implementation of the plans. This step involves helping you decide if you
should be in multiple contracts or if you should scale back on your normal
position size. If the risk is not worth the reward, then trade with fewer po-
sitions. In other words, scale back your normal position size.
STEPS TO SUCCESS
The steps outlined here are a review of the overall purpose of the trading
methods discussed in this book. Pivot point analysis helps give me a “heads
up” on the potential range of a session. The moving average of the pivot
point helps give me a truer reflection of the market’s value, and that helps
me define the market’s condition and possibly the correct direction. Can-
dlestick charts help illustrate and define the trigger, which enables me to
carry out a systematic process of arriving at optimum plans and strategies
for my trades. With that, I am now aware of the full range of issues to be

c10.qxd 9/25/06 8:41 AM Page 271
Projecting Entry and Exit Points 271
considered in a systematic thinking process before entering a trade. By ex-
amining a set of relevant questions, such as how low the market can go,
what the next support target is, how high the market can go, and what the
next resistance level is, I can formulate a trading plan with a clear, concise
strategic idea. Exiting the positions and taking money off the table should
be the easy part. However, as it turns out, that is the hardest part for most
traders.
Let’s take a trade example as shown in Figure 10.1. The hammer forms;
I buy on the close, as the market closed above the moving averages; and I
have immediate results. I entered at 10765; and the bullish momentum car-
ried the market higher, as indicated by higher highs, higher lows, and higher
closing highs. The market has lost the bullish momentum, as I see a lower-
close-than-open pattern develop on two time periods followed by a doji.
That is the definition of price action demonstrating a loss in bullish mo-
mentum. Therefore, that dictates for me to liquidate half of my position,
which is at 10780. Hardly a profit to speak of, considering the mini-Dow is
$5 per point, which is only a $75 profit. But it is a profit.
FIGURE 10.1
Used with permission of esignal.com.

c10.qxd 9/25/06 8:41 AM Page 272
272 CANDLESTICK AND PIVOT POINT TRADING TRIGGERS
Now what about the balance of my positions, and where do I place my
stops? In this example, I would suggest either moving stops up to my
break-even point or, as just discussed, placing the stop on a close below
the low of the most recent conditional change candle (a higher closing
high), which occurs at the 6:15 time period. At this point, I do not know if
the market will move higher or lower, but I definitely have a loss of mo-
mentum. In this situation, prices established a pause, or consolidation; and
then the market did break out and continued the uptrend. With scaling out
of half of the position, I have a profit and am continuously participating in
a tremendous trending condition, as the market ends up more than 10870.
That equates to more than a 110-point gain, or $550 per contract, on the bal-
ance of positions. As a day trader, did I do wrong in liquidating half of my
position? Not if you follow rules. In this situation, I did not have a classic
sell signal, just an indication of a loss in momentum. Therefore, it was a
prudent measure to get paid on partial positions and let the balance ride.
So in this example, there was a reason or a call to action, but not a signal
for a reversal of the long.
FIGURE 10.2
Used with permission of esignal.com.

c10.qxd 9/25/06 8:41 AM Page 273
Projecting Entry and Exit Points 273
Ever heard of the saying “Character in great and little things means car-
rying through what you feel able to do”? Covering half of your positions
when markets signal a loss in momentum is carrying through what you are
able to do. You made money and stayed with the trade.
In Figure 10.2, we have a low close doji trigger, a classic crossover of
the moving averages, and prices closing below both moving averages. A
trigger to sell short was generated at 10523. We see a beautiful event un-
fold—immediate results with lower highs, lower lows, and lower closing
lows—until the 11:50 time period; and the market moves sideways in a con-
solidation pattern. It does take on the form of a bearish descending triangle;
however, we do not know what the outcome will be. As the market is at
10490,. we are staring at a 30-point mini-Dow move, which translates into a
$150 profit per contract. At this time, it is prudent to cover half of the posi-
tion and put the stop in at breakeven. The market in fact happens to move
in the direction of the original trend as the bearish triangle indicated. By fol-
lowing the market flow, we finally see a specific reason to cover the bal-
ance of the position with the high close doji signal at 10483. Here we have
a 40-point gain on the second half of the trade for a $200 gain. We have, in
essence, captured the majority of the trend and kept disciplined in our trad-
ing approach while scaling out of half of the position.
DO SOMETHING GREAT
I am sure you have read or heard this expression sometime in your life: “I’d
rather attempt to do something great and fail than to attempt to do nothing
and succeed.” By scaling out, you have a profit in your trading account
while letting the trade mature. You have accomplished a great thing, a true
sense of following a business plan—and you made money.
Scaling out of positions is the most apropriate method when the mar-
ket gives you a clue that the trend momentum is slowing. It allows you to
capture a profit while participating in a potential market move. As a day
trader, you are not so much concerned with long-term macroeconomic sit-
uations as you are with riding a momentum wave. Granted, it helps to have
a good understanding of fundamental conditions; but for the most part, you
are looking to ride a move and profit from it. That is your job. In short-term
trading, conditions change; and you need to capture opportunities as they
become present stocks. Foreign exchange (forex) and futures markets are
ideal for momentum trades. Traders need assistance with capturing the
profits while letting the balance of the position ride or, better stated, with
an execution plan. The foreign currency markets also tend to trend well
over the course of 7 to 10 days, allowing swing traders opportunities to cap-
ture larger price swings over a given period of time. One of the greatest ben-

c10.qxd 9/25/06 8:41 AM Page 274
274 CANDLESTICK AND PIVOT POINT TRADING TRIGGERS
efits here is that you have access to the markets on a 24-hour basis, unlike
the equity markets.
SCALE AND TRAIL
The euro currency chart in Figure 10.3 demonstrates a nice swing trading
opportunity and how scaling out of half of your positions is a great mecha-
nism to capture profits while staying with a potentially longer-term trend.
As you can see, the sell signal triggers at 124.80. Immediately we see the se-
quence of events develop: lower closes than opens, lower highs, lower
lows, and lower closing lows. This is what we want to see each time we
place a short position in the market. As the price declines, a hammer forms;
and as you know, that generally gives a clue that a market reversal is de-
veloping. The market does make a higher closing high, which would give
you reason to scale out of half of your positions at 122.65. Not a bad trade,
which took place over 11 trading sessions.
FIGURE 10.3
Used with permission of esignal.com.

c10.qxd 9/25/06 8:41 AM Page 275
Projecting Entry and Exit Points 275
The market has not given any confirmation of a trend change; there-
fore, you would want to move a stop down on the balance of the positions
to just above the high of the candle that made the last major conditional
change of a lower closing low. Trading with scaling out of the balance of
half of your positions combined with the trailing stop method we went over
in Chapter 9 will help you capture profits while participating in the major-
ity of a trending market condition.
INTEGRATE PIVOT POINTS TO HELP
TIME OUR EXITS?
We have gone over how to move the stops and why it is good to scale out
of positions. We can integrate pivot points to help us trigger our entries and
use the pivot point support or resistance levels to help us target our exits.
As shown in Figure 10.4, we have a 15-minute candle chart showing a clas-
sic sell signal with a low close doji at pivot resistance, and we see how the
FIGURE 10.4
RealTick graphics used with permission of Townsend Analytics, LTD.

c10.qxd 9/25/06 8:41 AM Page 276
276 CANDLESTICK AND PIVOT POINT TRADING TRIGGERS
moving averages have crossed and the market is trading below both values.
We have a call to action to sell on the close or on the next open. This chart
is the e-mini–Standard & Poor’s (S&P), and we would be filled at 1264.25.
The market declines in the perfect order—lower highs, lower lows, and
lower closing lows—right until we see the market trade down to the pivot
support target. This is a perfect opportunity to scale out of half of your po-
sitions. Remember that in Chapter 2 we went over the fact that once a mar-
ket goes into trend mode, it will then go into a consolidation phase. We do
not know if the trend will continue or reverse; so at this point, it makes
sense to trail a stop on the balance of positions.
I use the point just above the last conditional change, which is the can-
dle that made the last lower closing low. We cover half of the positions at
1260.75 for a 3.5-point gain, or $175 per contract. We would lower our stops
on the balance to 1262.25 to lock in profits on the balance of positions.
Using the pivot point target levels will help you identify when and where to
scale out of positions.
BUY SUPPORT, SELL RESISTANCE
Throughout this book, I have made many references to why I look for buy
signals at the predetermined pivot point support levels and take sell signals
at predetermined resistance levels. This also falls along the lines of not
knowing the outcome of the trading signal and market trend conditions,
which can and do change. As a day trader looking to capture a portion of a
day’s potential trading range, you have to use a plan. Scaling out of posi-
tions is such a plan of action. Take a look at Figure 10.5. We have a spot
forex euro currency versus the U.S. dollar. Notice that the market breaks
below the targeted pivot point support several times; however, prices do
not seem to decline very far or carry any momentum. In fact, a low close
doji pattern develops, which means, if you follow my rules, you do not take
sell signals at support. This helps filter out the false trading signals. Once
we have a high close doji trigger to go long at 119.83, we now can place our
stop and follow the developments as the trade matures. We see higher
highs, higher lows, and higher closing highs. The market closes closer to
the highs of each successive candle, and the closes of each candle are
above the opens. These are all very bullish signs, and the market blasts be-
yond the first resistance (R-1) point. So far, we do not have a reason to liq-
uidate the position or scale out of the trade. Then as the market trades at
the R-2 level, we see a doji form; and that will be the clue to scale out of
half of the position near 120.20. At this point, we trail our stop on the bal-

c10.qxd 9/25/06 8:41 AM Page 277
Projecting Entry and Exit Points 277
FIGURE 10.5
RealTick graphics used with permission of Townsend Analytics, LTD.
ance of positions to the low of the last conditional change candle, which is
the one that made the last higher closing high. We do get knocked out of
the trade, as the market develops into a consolidation phase. This trade re-
sulted in capturing a nice chunk of the middle of a beautiful intraday trend-
ing market condition. Scaling out of the first half of the position would
have generated a 40-point profit, or $400 per $100,000 contract lot value;
and the balance would have made nearly 30 points, or $300. There was lit-
tle to no pressure once the trade was initiated. Pivot points helped you tar-
get the entry and scale out of the exit. As an interesting note, remember the
statistic that stated that dojis form close to the highs and/or pivot point re-
sistance levels. Figure 10.5 is just another chart to help visually validate
that claim.
Most people use scale trading as a means to stagger positions to enter
as well as exit a market. There are many variations and specific techniques.
It can be argued that rather than scaling out of half of the positions, you

c10.qxd 9/25/06 8:41 AM Page 278
278 CANDLESTICK AND PIVOT POINT TRADING TRIGGERS
should actually add on to trades to really pyramid profits. I personally do
not use this style of trading. I encourage you to explore any and all meth-
ods, but I like to stick to the methods that work for me. When I have a pro-
jected entry price based on pivot point analysis, I never have a “guaranteed”
profit until I liquidate the trade. By scaling out, it is the finest method I
know of that puts cash in my account while allowing me to further partici-
pate in gains on the balance of positions.

c11.qxd 9/25/06 8:43 AM Page 279
CHAPTER 11
The Sample
Analysis
The Proof Is in the Back-Testing
S
hort-term system traders make their money, leave the game, and wait
to execute the next setup; they don’t have to worry about being an
economist. They get in when the signals indicate and get out when the
signals dictate. It has been stated many times and proven by history that
traders who consistently make money are those who follow a program or a
set of predefined rules. These rules have been tested, and they correspond
in a variety of time periods and with diversified or noncorrelated markets.
You may have made observations on changes in the market, such as
when the stock index futures are trending up by 10:30 A.M.(CT) on a Friday,
the market has a tendency to trade higher through the end of the day. Ac-
tually, that was a casual observation of mine as described on page 212 of
my first book, A Complete Guide to Technical Trading Tactics (Wiley,
2004).With that said, once you have a trading idea about the way a market
moves, through your own observation, you can apply it to computer code
and have a computer generate an alert to inform you when a signal is gen-
erated.
Through the proficiency of computers, we can take historical data and
back-test the results to see how reliable and accurate the theories are. Not
all systems work well. Some are good in trending market conditions, and
others will work well in nontrending market environments. Therefore, it is
important to back-test a methodology for various time periods and in vari-
ous noncorrelated markets to see if the principles are sound and stand the
test of time. So far, with what we have gone over, you can develop your
own rules based on pivot point and candlestick patterns.
279

c11.qxd 9/25/06 8:43 AM Page 280
280 CANDLESTICK AND PIVOT POINT TRADING TRIGGERS
One such example is if we assign a positive (+) value to a candle with
a higher close than open, if you have a sequence of three positive values
after a succession of, say, five negative (–) values, and if the low of a given
candle is within two ticks, or 5 percent of, the average daily range on a 10-
day average, then a buy signal is triggered. Another way of stating this is:
• For a positive assigned candle:
Close (C) is greater than open (O) ( C > O)
• For a negative assigned candle:
Close is less than open (C < O)
• For a doji candle, with a neutral (=) assigned value:
Close is equal to open (C = O)
• You can program your own system to generate an exit strategy based
on an average holding period of, say, seven or eight periods or until the
market forms a lower close than open (C < O) or a negative assigned
value and if that time period closes below the prior time period’s low.
Another methodology or system that is a simpler program would be to
combine a three-period pivot point moving average with a five-period pivot
point moving average. After a series of lower closing lows, once the three-
period moving average crosses above the five-period moving average and if
the market was within five points above or below a pivot point first support
level (S-1) target number, then a buy signal would be generated. For added
optimization, you could add a filter that if the stochastics indicator was
below the 20 percent line, once %K and %D crossed and closed back above
the 20 percent level, a buy signal would trigger.
Using the value of the pivot point resistance target of R-1 while com-
bining the three-period pivot point moving average with the five-period
pivot point moving average, once the three-period crossed and closed
below the five-period pivot point moving average, within five points either
above or below the R-1, a sell signal would be generated. For added fine
tuning, you could add another element, such as a stochastics reading, so if
both moving averages were above the 80 percent level and once %K and %D
both closed back below the 80 percent level, a sell signal would be trig-
gered.
The hard part in coding is comprehending or understanding the soft-
ware language and then thinking like a computer. You can’t just state “sell”
when stochastics gives a sell signal. The software or computer program
does not know what your interpretation of a sell signal is.
If you recall, in Chapter 1, I suggested that traders need to ask more
questions. That is what a system trader does. In order to develop a trading
plan or a mechanical system, you need to search for answers to question
such as:

c11.qxd 9/25/06 8:43 AM Page 281
The Sample Analysis 281
• Will this be for day or position trading?
• Will volume studies be used and, if so, how?
• What will be the average holding period?
• What methods do we want to use and what parameter will we choose?
A trader needs to use various tools to get the job done, so to speak.
That is why I have several trading platforms and quote services. Genesis
Software allows me to develop my own “black box” of algorithms and indi-
cators and to back-test the program. In order to develop a good system, you
need to decide if the trading concepts are valid. Once you have come up
with your set of rules or criteria, then you can start to optimize the pro-
gram. You have heard of the “Keep It Simple” rule? Leonardo da Vinci is
credited with saying “Simplicity is the ultimate sophistication.” If Leonardo
liked things simple, well then, it is good enough for me, too!
A trading system should be designed from simple yet effective rules
that blend key concepts of momentum changes and trending conditions.
A well-defined trading strategy can be developed to generate buy and sell
signals in most markets in various time periods. Believe it or not, design-
ing a trading system is easy to do once you have an idea of what the call
to action, or the trigger, will be to enter a position. In this book, we have
gone over several good techniques with which you can start, such as when
indicators correspond near pivot points like the stochastics 80 percent/20
percent close line technique or the moving average convergence/diver-
gence (MACD) zero-line cross signal. You can develop a system based on
these two indicators and then determine how many time periods, or the
length of time, a position should be in the market. Now all you need to de-
termine is how many holding periods (such as 4 or 8 periods) are needed
before an exit strategy is triggered. You can develop a trigger on moving
average crossover to initiate a signal, just like the pivot point moving av-
erage we went over in Chapter 6 or a simple moving average using 5-period
versus 10-period parameters. You will want to test the system over a
lengthy time frame and with various noncorrelated markets. If there is any
validity to the rules or methods, then you should see positive performance
across the board.
Not all systems that show results of extremely high profit levels are
best. A system also depends on drawdowns, or periods of equity loss. Also,
it is important to have software that will show you a trading system’s weak-
ness or will help point out specific time periods or time frames in which you
should not trade. Being able to closely follow your drawdown patterns is a
huge benefit to the computer-friendly active systems trader, finding an-
swers to such questions as: What is the recovery period to gain back losses?
What is the depth or magnitude of the losses? These are very important
questions because if a system has great returns but absurd equity draw-

c11.qxd 9/25/06 8:43 AM Page 282
282 CANDLESTICK AND PIVOT POINT TRADING TRIGGERS
downs for long periods, then it is most likely a poor system for an average
investor to trade. When you are designing your system, ask yourself what
you want this system to do. The obvious answer is to make money; but you
also want to know how long and how deep the drawdown periods are or
whether there are consistently more winners than losers. As a trader you
need to evaluate new techniques, especially ones that increase your prof-
itability while reducing your risk and exposure in the market. Systems need
to be developed with the idea of triggering a turning point in the market ear-
lier than other indicators and other traders do. Considering that most indi-
cators are lagging, you need a signal that identifies turning points as they
occur, and you need to use indicators to confirm that the position is valid.
Pivot point analysis does just that, especially when combining support and
resistance levels and by implementing a moving average approach
One of the best features or benefits to using mechanical trading sys-
tems is that they alert a trader to initiate a trade or to act on a signal as it oc-
curs, rather than on a hunch or on the two main destructive emotional
elements, fear and greed. Based on a system that is tested, you have statis-
tical evidence to validate the entry; and that should help eliminate trading
on a hunch, a rumor, or a feeling, which is what drives most trading deci-
sions from inexperienced traders. As this book has demonstrated, it is not
my intention to portray the ability to buy the exact low or sell the exact
high. In most cases, I am looking for a definitive trend or price reversal to
occur; and then I act on that signal and carry a position until the market
demonstrates a loss in momentum, the time to exit the trade. The keys to
winning are the ability to practice patience and wait for the setup to de-
velop and the discipline to act on the trigger. Mostly, it is the ability to exit
a losing trade as the signals dictate, not to hang onto the loser. So when
using a system, you will know and understand that the mechanics are never
100 percent right and that you will have a certain number of trades that do
not work out. Once you come to grips with that fact, it will be easier to em-
brace your losses rather than become emotionally wrangled when they
occur. Hopefully, you can learn from a trader with long-term positive ex-
periences. Good advice will get you ahead more quickly than if you have to
learn everything on your own, and it will help you avoid costly mistakes.
Take my advice: Learn a system, back-test it to see the strengths and weak-
ness of the method, and then trade on these testable signals.
SEASONAL STOCK SYSTEM
Jeff Hirsch and his father, Yale, who publish Stock Trader’s Almanac
(Wiley, 2004, 2005), reveal many top-notch statistical studies based on past

c11.qxd 9/25/06 8:43 AM Page 283
The Sample Analysis 283
historic price action. Many of their strategies are based on seasonal factors
that help stock pickers time the markets. One of the methods they promote
is using a simple MACD developed by Gerald Appel to better time entries
and exits during the best six-month period for stocks, which starts in Oc-
tober. Once a market bottoms out and develops in an uptrend, the MACD
indicator triggers confirmation that a price reversal is underway. The
MACD signals help traders time their entries. However, as we uncovered in
prior chapters, it is a lagging indicator. With that said, I believe what can
make that buying program or system more effective is to add and apply a
weekly and/or monthly pivot point study. This may give a trader an edge by
adding another dimensional element that combines the seasonal factor for
timing with targeting a price level from pivot points. Using this approach
can help light the path to a trading system that a trader can back-test on his
or her own through software such as Genesis.
HISTORY LESSONS
I want to combine the lessons on how to choose the right pivot point sup-
port and resistance numbers with how those values relate to the market di-
rection number. This can help you determine if the market has departed
too far from the mean or too far from what I call the “fair value” of the mar-
ket. Start by examining the past price history. Once you see where the mar-
ket was and how far the market has moved in a given length of time (pace
of price change), you can possibly determine the realm of reality of where
a target level of support may be located. You can use this information to de-
termine if a market is significantly overbought or, as we will show in this
example, oversold and ripe for a buying opportunity. When a market is sig-
nificantly oversold, the conditions exist for a consolidation phase and a re-
versal of trend, especially when we have a seasonal condition. This
concept applies in commodities, stocks, and foreign exchange (forex) mar-
kets as well.
Let’s take a look at how the bottom formed in the stock market in Oc-
tober 2005 as we review and expand on the Stock Trader’s AlmanacMACD
signal. Figure 11.1 is my sheet from the week ending October 14. We use
this sheet as a quick reference so I can see what the past week’s high, low,
and close were. The pivot point is displayed in the far right column. We see
that in the prior week, the high in Standard & Poor’s (S&P) was 1239. The
pivot point is 1208, and the pivot point moving average is 1220.58 (round
down to 1220.50). The indication is that the market is bearish, so we would
look at the Bearish Target column and see 1155. Here is where back-testing
software may help you determine what the largest price range is in a given

284
FIGURE 11.1
Used with permission of www.nationalfutures.com.
c11.qxd
9/25/06
8:43
AM
Page
284

c11.qxd 9/25/06 8:43 AM Page 285
The Sample Analysis 285
week in the S&P on a historic basis. Why is that relevant? Because I want
to know if 1155 is an unrealstic number to hit if the market was at 1239 and
the standard range was 40 points. From the prior week’s high to the pro-
jected bearish S-2 target low, that would be an 84.00-point price decline.
Not unheard of but not realistic, at least not in one week’s trading period.
At the very least, we need to see how the market reacts at the S-1 target sup-
port number, 1177.50, labeled as the Target Key Number, which is the S-1
pivot number.
On further examination, we see the market closed the week ending
10/07/2005 at 1200. So sometime in the following week, I want to heighten
my awareness or program a system to alert me to when or if the market
reaches that level and if a buy signal exists at or near 1177.50, such as if a
hammer or doji is present within five points above or below that level. After
all, we have a decent sample of statistics that reveal that these two candle
patterns form at or near the lows in e-mini–S&Ps a high percentage of the
time on an intraday 15-minute period.
The low was made on 10/13/2005 at 1172; it closed that day back above
the pivot support at 1178.25. The next session formed a high close doji
(HCD). Using the HCD pattern and trading by the rules, you would have
bought at 1189.75; and your risk was a stop on a close below the doji low,
which was at 1172. The most pressure you took on a futures position trade
was from your entry price to the lowest low on a pull-back was when it
retested the low at 1174, which is 16 points. The stop-close-only order was
the correct risk mechanism for this position trade. Using a seasonal factor
combined with pivot point analysis helped traders pinpoint both the time
and the price of a particular market; and in using historical seasonal infor-
mation, traders would possibly want to employ a longer-term risk-and-
reward strategy. Even if you are a one-day or swing trader, seasonal factors
can help identify the side of the market to be on, like in a bullish environ-
ment to look to buy breaks. My point is that if you are a position trader,
your risks and reward objectives should be greater than those of a day
trader. Here we have a trading opportunity based on several factors. All we
need to do now is select a strategy.
WHICH STRATEGY TO SELECT?
If buying the futures markets seemed too risky, you at least have a situation
where you can explore longer-term low-risk/high-reward options strate-
gies such as S&P call options. That was my recommendation in my weekly
newsletter. You could apply this analysis to buy Standard & Poor’s De-
positary Receipts (SPDRs), Diamonds, Nasdaq QQQs, or options on those

c11.qxd 9/25/06 8:43 AM Page 286
286 CANDLESTICK AND PIVOT POINT TRADING TRIGGERS
exchange traded funds. That is one reason why I spent time going over
those products in Chapter 1. Seriously, if you are just a day trader in fu-
tures or forex or simply a stock trader, diversification is a trader’s best
friend. Anyone who is after profits and making money can apply these
techniques. To any investment vehicle, a trading system can be pro-
grammed to alert you when dojis form near pivots support or resistance
levels. Moving average crossover features using various parameter settings
can also be applied. This form of market analysis is adaptable and very ver-
satile for integrating in a trading system.
WHAT ABOUT THE MACD?
Pivot point analysis enhances what Stock Trader’s Almanacreveals. Look-
ing at the chart again in Figure 11.2, you see how the MACD indicator gave
a buy signal triggered by the zero-line crossover and a moving average
crossover on October 24. This was generated on the close at 1202.25. Not
FIGURE 11.2
Used with permission of esignal.com.

c11.qxd 9/25/06 8:43 AM Page 287
The Sample Analysis 287
knowing the risk you want to take with the MACD seasonal buy signal, if
you bought at that price at that time, the most pressure you took on the
trade was 22 points, slightly more than the high close doji trigger signal.
Also the MACD signal came a bit later. This is why all traders can use pivot
point support and resistance analysis to help time trades better with both
elements, time and price.
I went over how to use the pivot point as a moving average in Chapter
6. In Figure 11.3, I took the liberty of highlighting the pivot point to illustrate
the slope (or direction) of the moving average. Once the market hits the
pivot support, the market moves in a consolidation phase; but the pivot
point average is sloping higher, indicating a bullish bias. Granted, you al-
ways want to see immediate results as a trader; but using the seasonal fac-
tors identified by Stock Trader’s Almanac combined with pivot point
support targets and a pivot point moving average component gives you a
much better timed entry and method to identify a trend reversal.
One more advantage of incorporating the pivot point average is that as
the market finally blasts off, the moving average component generates a
sell signal and the histogram makes a negative zero-line cross. However,
Pivot point moving average
slopes higher.
Pivot point moving average
slopes higher.
FIGURE 11.3
Used with permission of esignal.com.

c11.qxd 9/25/06 8:43 AM Page 288
288 CANDLESTICK AND PIVOT POINT TRADING TRIGGERS
that is the opposite of what prices are showing from the candle patterns, as
we do not see a succession of lower closing lows. In addition, the pivot
point moving average is sloping higher, once again indicating a bullish bias.
From a systems programmer looking for a defined set of rules, when you
develop your own system, it is important to make sure that your set of cri-
teria or the series of conditions that exist all need to be in sync, such as all
must be generating sell signals, before making your entry or exit triggers.
In Figure 11.4, the Genesis Software has my algorithms programmed
with variations of what was covered in this book to show you how you
can develop your own personal “black box” system. As this illustrates,
for my day trading program, I use both the 5-minute and the 15-minute
periods with the e-mini–S&P, the Chicago Board of Trade (CBOT)
mini-Dow, 30-year Treasury bonds, euro currency, and the spot forex
British pound. Except for in this figure, the one chart that is second from
the right is a 5-minute chart on bonds; and under it is a 15-minute chart on
the euro currency.
I use this system to help confirm buy and sell signals, as indicated with
the arrows. When we are at the projected support targets, which the soft-
ware indicates by green support lines, arrows appear, indicating to go long.
The chart on the left is the e-mini–S&P; the 5-minute is on top and the 15-
minute is beneath it. See how arrows point up simultaneously, which indi-
cates a buy signal, especially as the market is near support. The chart
second from the left is the mini-Dow with the 5-minute on top and the 15-
minute beneath it. The 5-minute time period generates a buy signal against
the pivot point support targets simultaneously with the e-mini–S&P. This
corroborates the buy signal, as it has developed in both markets. It is also
confirmed in the 15-minute chart beneath it.
WHAT IS THE BEST DAY TRADING CONFIRMATION
TRIGGER TO PROGRAM?
The most reliable trading signal is when the 5-minute time period triggers
a buy when the 15-minute time period is also in a buy mode; in other words,
the best signals are when the 5-minute period is in sync with the 15-minute
time period in a pivot point moving average crossover system. We see this
occur as it applies to day trading the spot forex British pound as the chart
in Figure 11.4 shows. Look on the right-hand side of the chart; in the upper
right-hand corner is the 5-minute period, and directly below it is the 15-
minute chart. See how the 5-minute generates the sell signal first, as it is
against the projected pivot point resistance targets; and the 15-minute chart
beneath it confirms that sell signal. This is exactly what we want to see—a

289
FIGURE 11.4
Used with permission of www.GenesisFT.com.
c11.qxd
9/25/06
8:43
AM
Page
289

c11.qxd 9/25/06 8:43 AM Page 290
290 CANDLESTICK AND PIVOT POINT TRADING TRIGGERS
sell signal triggered against resistance; and the higher time period, such as
the 15-minute component to the 5-minute sell signal, confirming that action.
SHOW ME THE PROOF
As a systems trader, once you have set your variables or your best selected
set of rules or criteria and have defined the parameters such as time peri-
ods, then you can go and back-test the method. I want to show you that any
system worth following needs to show sizable profits with reasonable risks.
No system is 100 percent accurate, at least none that I know of in reality. If
one existed, I would believe through the laws of probabilities that it was
due for a breakdown. There are several categories on which you want to
focus that will enlighten you as to the true validity of the methods. In
essence, back-testing allows you to closely examine your system’s ineffi-
ciencies so you can correct the flaws. Looking at the back-test results will
also help you understand when to increase position sizes, when to avoid
trading, and how to facilitate improvements.
You want to see if the reasons you make decisions to execute a trade
consistently generate more profits when you are right than losses when the
system or trade fails. If less than 70 percent of trades result in winning
trades, you want the winners to outgain the losses. It makes no sense to
have a 70 percent winning system that generates more losses than winners
and longer holding periods. Imagine what that will do to your psyche, not to
mention your trading account.
It is important that you understand what elements trigger a trade when
the transaction is entered or exited. This helps in determining another way
to account for slippage. For example, if the system generates buy and sell
signals on the close or on the next open, if this is a day trading program,
then there may be less chance for price gaps. However, if the system exe-
cutes based on the closing price or on the next open, such as what we have
disclosed in the high close doji pattern or the low close doji pattern, then on
overnight positions you may experience poor entry or exits. With that
knowledge, you can change your program to include the next available
open, which would include night sessions.
Let me clarify what the night sessionis for various trading vehicles. As
we know, there is no official close in spot foreign currencies. Therefore,
you need to assign a daily close and then an open. In Chapter 1, I revealed
that I use the New York Bank settlement of 5 P.M.(ET) and use the open as
the next five-minute interval. As for futures, different exchanges on which
various markets trade have specific official closes and reopens for their
after-hours trading markets. The Chicago Mercantile Exchange (CME) has

c11.qxd 9/25/06 8:43 AM Page 291
The Sample Analysis 291
GLOBEX, the CBOT has the e-CBOT, and the New Mercantile Exchange
(NYMEX) started using the CME’s electronic trading platform in June 2006.
The partnership between the CME and the NYMEX begins a 10-year deal
that allows the NYMEX to use the CME’s GLOBEX platform to electroni-
cally trade both energy and metal futures and options. This promises to give
better access to traders worldwide for those specific markets.
If you are reading this book, I assume that you already know the vari-
ous market hours; but if not, visit www.nationalfutures.com, where they
are listed under Trading Tools, which has the current margin requirements,
contract specifications, and trading hours listed. In Table 11.1, I have a de-
scription of the categories that are important in helping to determine a sys-
tem’s validity.
In Table 11.2, we have results from a pivot point moving average
system I developed with the help of Pete Kilman at Genesis. It is what I
call the “Defcon” day traders’ program system. As I stated before, this is
not 100 percent accurate. I do not know of any system that is; but it is a
TABLE 11.1 Determining a System’s Validity
Total net profit This number tells you how much the system made
after slippage, commissions, fees, and losses.
Payout ratio This tells you based on a profit/loss the percent that
winners outpace losers.
Avgerage number of This category shows what the average time period was
bars for winners before the trade was offset in order to establish a
profit.
Win percent This figure shows how many winners versus losers
were generated.
Kelly ratio A math calculation used to derive the number of
contracts to trade in relation to the ratio of winning
trades to losing trades.
Largest win This figure shows the largest single winning trade. We
look at this number to see if profits on a single trade
are larger than 20 percent of the overall net profit. If it
is, it indicates the trade signals may be invalid.
Largest loss This category helps traders identify if single losses are
bigger than winners so they can implement a better
risk management approach.
Average win trade This shows what to expect on the average-size
winning trade.
Average losing trade This shows what the average-size loss is.
Return percent This is the percent of profit on the initial size starting
account.

c11.qxd 9/25/06 8:43 AM Page 292
292 CANDLESTICK AND PIVOT POINT TRADING TRIGGERS
TABLE 11.2 E-mini–S&P All Trades, from 01/08/2003 to 01/10/2006
Total net profit: $39,538 Profit factor ($wins/$losses): 2.06
Total trades: 258 Winning percentage: 63.6%
Average trade: $153 Payout ratio (average win/loss): 1.18
Average # of bars in trade: 78.89 Z–score (W/L predictability): 0.8
Average # of trades per year: 85.7 Percent in the market: 74.4%
Max closed-out drawdown: –$4,063 Maximum intraday drawdown: –$4,350
Account size required: $7,913 Return percent: 499.7%
Open equity: $100 Kelly ratio: 0.3266
Total winners: 164 Total losers: 94
Gross profit: $76,963 Gross loss: –$37,425
Average win: $469 Average loss: –$398
Largest win: $2,100 Largest loss: –$1,825
Largest drawdown in win: –$1,663 Largest peak in loss: $1,938
Average drawdown in win: –$271 Average peak in loss: $276
Average run-up in win: $708 Average run-up in loss: $276
Average run-down in win: –$271 Average run-down in loss: –$716
Most consecutive wins: 9 Most consecutive losses: 7
Average number of Average number of
consecutive wins: 2.60 consecutive losses: 1.49
Average number of bars in wins: 76.68 Average number of bars in losses: 82.73
fairly reliable and robust system with a 63.6 percent overall win ratio in
the e-mini–S&P 500 futures. The sample testing period was conducted
during open outcry session only, from 9:30 A.M. (ET) until 4:15 P.M. (ET).
There were no stops or loss parameters; this was simply a reversal system,
which means we were always in the market and out on the close of busi-
ness. The trades were all done on just one single contract; so we did not
have a money management position scale-up program designed, which
means we did not increase lot size as profits accrued. This system is based
on pivot point analysis and the principles outlined in this book; the trading
signals were based on a 15-minute time period, and the testing period was
three years.
All trade signals were taken from 01/08/2003 to 01/10/2006. This time
period was one of the most active trading times in recent decates, so I feel
this was a good sample period to back-test. A starting account was set up
with $10,000, taking one contract per signal. A $50 commission and slippage
were assigned per trade. Generally, the electronic commission rates are as
low as 3.50 and as high as 25, depending on which brokerage firm was used;
so again this was an adequate figure to use. With those variables, the system
generated close to a 500 percent return. As we examine the system closer,
we see it generated 258 trades, of which only 164 were winners. That means
we must have bigger winners than losers, and we do. The average win is
$469, compared to $398 per loss on average. The neat feature in this system

c11.qxd 9/25/06 8:43 AM Page 293
The Sample Analysis 293
or with this sample back-test model is that the largest drawdown in wins is
1,663. This is the kind of information that will give you a statistical edge in
trading. You now know that you have a system that generates buy and sell
signals with a 64 percent win ratio. This information should help you stay
emotionally grounded by achieving two things: (1) not getting too upset
when losses occur; (2) not overpositioning yourself in trades if and when
you have a win streak with more than eight or nine consecutive trades.
Most people lose big as they see their systems or methods generate huge
profits many times in a row. They get this feeling that their trading is invin-
cible or impervious to losers. And then, wham, that’s when a drawdown pe-
riod occurs! Generally, it is at this point that a trader goes from trading 10
contracts to 50 contracts. All it takes is one bad trade, and you have wiped
away your trading profits or, worse, your entire trading account.
MONEY MANAGEMENT IS THE KEY TO SUCCESS
Using the Defcon trading system, we started with a trading account balance
of $10,000. The overnight initial speculative margin for the CME’s e-
mini–S&P, as of 2/15/2006 was $3,938 per contract. Therefore, with trading
just one contract, we had committed 39 percent of our trading capital at any
one time. Since our account starts with $10,000 and the system only gener-
ates less than two trades per week, we need to define when it is apropriate
to increase our lot sizes. Aha! This is a novel idea and is what truly helps
traders get wealthy—knowing when to fold, hold, or add on.
If you look at Figure 11.5, you see a chart with an equity curve showing
some pretty good gains with an occasional bump in the road. Recoverable
as it is, a drawdown in profits occurs. Using system analysis can help you
determine most consecutive wins and losses and what the largest loss is.
Armed with that information, you can now go on to trading like a true
megastar professional fund manager—or simply a downright happy
camper. Why? Because that information will help you determine the next
level of profits you have to build in order to increase your lot size. If you do
not manage your money properly and double or quadruple your position
size before doubling your account size, you could be in for a rude awaken-
ing. As you can see, the maximum drawdown experienced is –4,062.50 on
11/10/2004. If that was the day you decided to mistakenly increase your lot
size, it may have potentially wiped your account out.
In Table 11.2, observe that the largest loss is $1,825. By increasing your
lot size prematurely or or by having an imbalance to largest loss in rela-
tionship to account balance, such as having four or more contracts on at
any one time, you could wipe out not only your gains but also the majority
of your account. Using statistics and mathematical formulas is what will

c11.qxd 9/25/06 8:43 AM Page 294
294 CANDLESTICK AND PIVOT POINT TRADING TRIGGERS
FIGURE 11.5
Used with permission of www.GenesisFT.com.
give you an edge in the markets, from both a business stance and an emo-
tional stance. You will be better prepared, and that should help make you a
better trader.
In conclusion, one of the greatest values of data derived from back-test-
ing a system is that it will reveal hidden intricacies about the system. Sim-
ply having a rudimentary knowledge of placing stop-loss orders is not the
definition of knowing sound money management techniques. You must ex-
pand your knowledge in managing your money properly by either under- or
overleveraging your trading capital. We went over a seasonal trading strat-
egy that Stock Trader’s Almanac uses in the equity markets using the
MACD indicator. I showed you how you can optimize that method by in-
troducing the use of pivot point analysis. With the ability of back-testing a
strategy, we can back-test this theory on our own; and more important, we
can learn if our system or trading method has a seasonal factor that per-
forms best or worst at certain times of the year. Then, you can also deter-
mine, based on your equity size, the number of positions you should have
on while maintaining a proper risk/reward ratio.

c11.qxd 9/25/06 8:43 AM Page 295
The Sample Analysis 295
WHEN IS THE BEST TIME TO TRADE?
Remember I stated in Chapter 1 that traders need to ask more questions?
Well, the more you learn, the more you know what to ask. As a systems
trader, asking how a system performs during different times of the year is
a novel idea, especially as seasonal forces can impact a market. Ask ques-
tions such as, “When is the best or the worst time to trade?” From a simple
yet elegant standpoint, the answer for day traders in equities is lunchtime.
This is substantiated by volume levels generally declining during that time
frame. Forex traders note that trading activity is light from 10 P.M. (ET)
until 1:30 A.M.(ET), as we discussed in Chapter 1. What about on a weekly
or monthly basis? When does our system perform best?
By tracking trading performance, as shown in Table 11.3, from a his-
torical perspective, we can form an opinion of when the system is at peak
performance or when the market we are trading is in sync with seasonal
factors. There is never a guarantee that past performance is indicative of fu-
ture results, but we can and do benefit from studying history. Without a
doubt, I do not want to go on a major tangent here; but we are trading in a
new frontier environment. The new age of technology has more people
trading online, and more people are more computer savvy. We have an in-
tricate globalization of our economy. Trading partners with China and even
India is not like what we had just five years ago. So with that perspective,
my opinion is that looking at seasonal tendencies of a market starting from
2000 up through 2005 would not be a huge statistical event, but it would be
more relevant than a testing period in 1990 through 1995. With that in mind,
we ran a test, as the results show in Figure 11.6, to see which months per-
form best with the “Defcon III model.”
Using the Genesis Software product and asking the right questions
(e.g., When is the best time to trade?), I can get a reasonable answer. In fact,
I wanted to know which months are the best and which months are the
worst in which to trade. Using the Genesis Software, I can run back tests to
see what the performance from a seasonal perspective with the Defcon
system looks like on a monthly performance basis. Using a test period over
the past three years, I am able to conclude that April is a month to avoid
trading! Based on a three-year average, this is the month that consistently
delivers drawdowns. With that statistical information, I have a slight edge
in the market, as it relates with my system. I can make a decision either to
lower my contract sizes or to avoid trading entirely. Figure 11.7 shows the
yearly breakdown of the compiled results.
The more statistics I have, the better prepared I am; and with that
knowledge, I have stacked the odds in my favor. This is the ultimate in trad-
ing tools and system designs: being able to identify opportunity and dis-
cover the weakest link in my chain of trading system. Table 11.4 dissects

296
TABLE 11.3 By Month Report
Jan 28, 2006 21:25:39
Name: John Person Defcon III
Symbol: ES1-067
Statistic to chart Profit, Position selection, All trades, From date 01/08/2003, To date 01/10/2006.
Win Win Loss Run Run Average Max Average
Month Trades Pct Avg Avg Up Down P/L P/F Trade C/L Loss Profit Bars
January 27 66.67% $488 –$369 $734 –$635 1.32 2.64 $202 1 –$1,175 $5,450 65.70
February 22 68.18% $408 –$273 $597 –$754 1.49 3.20 $191 2 –$650 $4,213 68.00
March 21 66.67% $690 –$732 $1,075 –$1,113 0.94 1.89 $216 2 –$1,475 $4,538 87.95
April 19 57.89% $414 –$609 $656 –$922 0.68 0.93 –$17 2 –$1,825 –$325 91.37
May 19 78.95% $418 –$256 $649 –$619 1.63 6.11 $276 1 –$500 $5,238 87.79
June 21 66.67% $371 –$393 $575 –$946 0.95 1.89 $117 4 –$1,413 $2,450 86.38
July 23 65.22% $453 –$117 $697 –$309 3.86 7.24 $254 2 –$338 $5,850 70.22
August 19 63.16% $502 –$516 $720 –$782 0.97 1.67 $127 2 –$1,325 $2,413 100.21
September 21 47.62% $376 –$267 $630 –$545 1.41 1.28 $39 6 –$1,375 $825 90.29
October 20 65.00% $476 –$554 $669 –$946 0.86 1.60 $116 3 –$1,750 $2,313 62.45
November 23 47.83% $508 –$413 $733 –$647 1.23 1.13 $28 3 –$1,313 $638 75.39
December 23 69.57% $502 –$300 $736 –$536 1.67 3.83 $258 2 –$650 $5,938 70.43
c11.qxd
9/25/06
8:43
AM
Page
296

c11.qxd 9/25/06 8:43 AM Page 297
The Sample Analysis 297
FIGURE 11.6
Used with permission of www.GenesisFT.com.
FIGURE 11.7
Used with permission of www.GenesisFT.com.

298 TABLE 11.4 Monthly History Report
Used with permission of www.GenesisFT.com.
c11.qxd
9/25/06
8:43
AM
Page
298

c11.qxd 9/25/06 8:43 AM Page 299
The Sample Analysis 299
each month’s performance from the three-year test period that really shows
the poor seasonal performance made in the month of April for those years
back-tested.
DOES THIS WORK FOR FOREX?
Since currency trading is a large component of my trading, I wanted to op-
timize a system for forex. The Defcon model was tested to stand up against
a noncorrelated investment vehicle to the equity markets. I chose the euro
currency market to run a performance test. As we discussed in Chapter 7,
due to the computers’ inability to test the forex markets’ data because there
is no centralized market and prices are quoted in bid/ask form, we ran the
test using the euro currency futures, which trades parallel to forex markets.
The test period was conducted using 15-minute intervals during the U.S.
open outcry trading session from 8:20 A.M.(ET) until 3 P.M.(ET).
The winning percentages were not as great as in the S&P; but, boy, the
bottom-line results showed a healthier profit! Table 11.5 shows the rate of
return with 365 percent, but it was based off a recommended starting bal-
ance of $16,770. The overall gross profit was $61,275, based on a test period
that went back three years. We had 310 trades—the system generated
slightly more trades here than in the S&P. This may indicate that the mar-
TABLE 11.5 Euro Currency—All Trades from 01/03/2003 to 01/09/2006
Total net profit: $61,2758 Profit factor ($wins/$losses): 1.49
Total trades: 310 Winning percentage: 60.3%
Average trade: $198 Payout ratio (average win/loss): 0.98
Average # of bars in trade: 64.24 Z–score (W/L predictability): –0.9
Average # of trades per year: 102.7 Percent in the market: 74.0%
Max closed-out drawdown: –$13,163 Maximum intraday drawdown: –$14,475
Account size required: $16,770 Return percent: 365.4%
Open equity: $825 Kelly ratio: 0.1981
Total winners: 187 Total losers: 123
Gross profit: $186,625 Gross loss: –$125,350
Average win: $998 Average loss: –$1,019
Largest win: $6,038 Largest loss: –$4,313
Largest drawdown in win: –$2,713 Largest peak in loss: $2,113
Average drawdown in win: –$405 Average peak in loss: $397
Average run-up in win: $1,450 Average run-up in loss: $397
Average run-down in win: –$405 Average run-down in loss: –$1,630
Most consecutive wins: 10 Most consecutive losses: 7
Average number of Average number of
consecutive wins: 2.63 consecutive losses: 1.76
Average number of bars in wins: 59.78 Average number of bars in losses: 71.03

c11.qxd 9/25/06 8:43 AM Page 300
300 CANDLESTICK AND PIVOT POINT TRADING TRIGGERS
ket is more volatile, not less, as some people believe. As for the test period,
I believe this was a good time frame because it represents a great sampling
of various market conditions, considering that we had several market con-
ditions exist: bull trend, to a consolidation phase, and then a trend reversal
or downtrend.
In January 2003, the euro was valued at 1.0500 to the U.S. dollar. It
went as high as 1.3660 in December 2004; and as of February 2006, the euro
was back at 119.00. During that time, the market conditions changed from
bullish to bearish and went into a consolidation phase as well. We want to
see how a trading system performs in various market conditions. Notice the
three market conditions as indicated by the trend lines drawn in the weekly
euro currency chart in Figure 11.8. According to the test results, the system
fared pretty well.
Let’s examine both the volatility and the margin requirements. As of
February 15, 2006, the daily initial margin requirement to trade one euro
currency with a 125,000 contract value (margin requirements are set by the
exchanges and are subject to change without notice) was $2,835.00. As you
can see, we are trading a highly leveraged market that has an average daily
FIGURE 11.8
Used with permission of esignal.com.

c11.qxd 9/25/06 8:43 AM Page 301
The Sample Analysis 301
range of approximately 86 PIPs (percentage in points) per day. In the fu-
tures, each PIPis $12.50. That computes to a daily trading range of $1,075
per day. In using strict money management guidelines, we are using only 28
percent of our investment capital. So in the spirit of being a great trader, I
want to ask why I would trade only one contract with a starting account of
$10,000. The answer is clear, and another great example of why it is impor-
tant to know what you are doing before you do it. By back-testing a system,
I can determine what the worst to expect is. Granted, we did not implement
any means for risk management. The Defcon system solely generates a
trade triggered by the pivot point moving average approach. You will see
that by going back and validating the methodology, we had a single loss in
the amount of $4,313. That is the bad news; and more than likely, as with
any severe and sudden market loss, it was generated by a shocking news
event. The monthly unemployment report on August 6, 2004, was one such
event where the euro currency moved almost 260 points in a single day.
This was a good definition of a news-driven price shock. As the data in
Table 11.3 shows, the profits were bigger in the euro than they were in the
e-mini–S&P; but so were the risks. So we have a bigger profit; but along
with that greater profit came greater risks. How many times have you heard
that before? The bigger the risk, the bigger the rewards. I have heard that a
bunch of times, but it is great to see it put in front of me based on a defined
set of rules. So if I get the feeling one day to go “all in” like a poker player
and use 100 percent of my margin, in the euro currency I could easily do
three contracts. In one bad day, not only would I wipe my account, but I
could be deficit, meaning I could actually lose every penny in my account
and owe money.
Using the back-tested results of a system allows me to see my pro-
gram’s strengths and weaknesses. That is the edge I have against the mar-
ket—knowing when to raise my positions and when not to. Besides
learning that my system can make money, I also found out that I need to
double my account if I want to double my positions. Using a computer
product like Genesis allows me to identify and validate the methods em-
ployed. As we look at the equity curve in Figure 11.9, we can see a solid per-
formance; and that should help maintain your confidence to stick with
trades generated by the signals. Figure 11.9 also highlights a negative
$13,162.50 maximum drawdown from peak profits. Imagine increasting
your lot or contract size prematurely during that negative phase. It would
certainly ruin your trading day, year, or even career!
In the stacked bar graph in Figure 11.10, we see the results of peak per-
formance; and more important, we see the kink in our armor, the weakest
point in our system from a seasonal perspective. By back-testing the sys-
tem, our diagnosis shows a seasonal weakness in the markets that occurs
in January and February and continues into March. We know from the table

302 CANDLESTICK AND PIVOT POINT TRADING TRIGGERS
FIGURE 11.9
Used with permission of www.GenesisFT.com.
FIGURE 11.10
Used with permission of www.GenesisFT.com.
tiforP
c11.qxd 9/25/06 8:43 AM Page 302
By Month
by Profit

c11.qxd 9/25/06 8:43 AM Page 303
The Sample Analysis 303
FIGURE 11.11
Used with permission of www.GenesisFT.com.
in Figure 11.1 that we have a string of winners that last on average 10 in a
row. Therefore, if at the end of October I have 10 winners in a row, I think
I will be more selective in my trade signals in November! As you can see,
the statistics show small drawdowns in November. According to the three-
year test period, April through August is the most profitable trading time
period (Table 11.6). We can enhance our performance by not trading in
April, though, as that was one of the worst-performing months as indicated
in Figure 11.6 on page 297.
As you break down the numbers by the statistical results, it is by that
data that you can determine the validity of your methods (Figures 11.11 and
Table 11.7). When we look at a month-to-month breakdown of the euro
currency, we see January 2004 was a whale of a disaster, as shown in Fig-
ure 11.11! With this information, we can determine if the cause of the dis-
aster was the system, the methods, or one heck of a wild trading period.
The answer should not surprise you: It was the last. There were only two
days that had daily trading ranges over 250 points. On January 16, 2004, the
market dropped like a hot sack of potatoes, with a high of 1.2610 and a low
of 1.2351, for a range of 259 points. Then two days later, it reversed higher,
with a low of 1.2345 and a high of 1.2599, for a 254-point range. The market
gained back what it lost; but overall, it was simply a very violent trading pe-
riod, as Figure 11.12 shows. Without some type of intraday risk manage-
ment method, such as a trailing stop, all traders at some point will be

304
TABLE 11.6 By Month Report
Jan 28, 2006 21:34:14
Name: John Person Defcon III euro
Symbol: EU-067
Statistic to chart Profit, Position selection All trades, From date 01/03/2003, To date 01/09/2006.
Win Win Loss Run- Run- Average Max Average
Month Trades Pct Avg Avg Up Down P/L P/F Trade C/L Loss Profit Bars
January 22 59.09 % $601 –$1,481 $1,054 –$2,383 0.41 0.59 –$251 4 –$3,350 –$5,513 71.45
February 19 57.89 % $1,048 –$1,791 $1,547 –$2,486 0.59 0.80 –$147 3 –$3,800 –$2,800 81.37
March 28 42.86 % $1,033 –$1,245 $1,460 –$1,899 0.83 0.62 –$269 4 –$3,375 –$7,525 65.36
April 24 66.67 % $1,053 –$858 $1,502 –$1,597 1.23 2.46 $416 2 –$1,975 $9,988 63.25
May 26 53.85 % $1,702 –$798 $2,339 –$1,451 2.13 2.49 $548 5 –$3,288 $14,250 66.62
June 31 64.52 % $747 –$520 $1,240 –$883 1.44 2.61 $297 7 –$2,550 $9,213 52.06
July 29 72.41 % $698 –$1,030 $1,007 –$1,795 0.68 1.78 $221 2 –$2,838 $6,413 58.07
August 34 73.53 % $977 –$958 $1,294 –$1,347 1.02 2.83 $464 4 –$3,138 $15,788 50.35
September 30 56.67 % $1,038 –$809 $1,557 –$1,297 1.28 1.68 $238 4 –$4,313 $7,138 57.10
October 19 57.89 % $808 –$941 $1,478 –$1,584 0.86 1.18 $72 3 –$1,838 $1,363 83.95
November 18 50.00 % $1,082 –$1,242 $1,790 –$1,931 0.87 0.87 –$80 2 –$3,763 –$1,438 84.00
December 30 60.00 % $1,330 –$795 $1,617 –$1,294 1.67 2.51 $480 3 –$2,738 $14,400 62.90
c11.qxd
9/25/06
8:43
AM
Page
304

305
TABLE 11.7 Monthly History Report
Used with permission of www.GenesisFT.com.
c11.qxd
9/25/06
8:43
AM
Page
305

c11.qxd 9/25/06 8:43 AM Page 306
306 CANDLESTICK AND PIVOT POINT TRADING TRIGGERS
FIGURE 11.12
Used with permission of esignal.com.
subjected to news-driven price-shock market environments. No one is im-
mune to them. The good news is that they do not occur frequently, as this
data shows.
To summarize, the essence of back-testing is validating your methods
and showing the strengths and the weaknesses of your system. Moreover,
it will help you define your goals and expectations for performance. There-
fore, it can help you achieve the highest trading profits with the lowest
risks in most trading market conditions. I want to elaborate that by study-
ing a system, in all market conditions, you at least will be better prepared
and less shocked when an eventual negative situation develops in your
trading career. The main goal in trading is consistency and staying in the
game. Statistics show this!

c12.qxd 9/25/06 8:44 AM Page 307
CHAPTER 12
Confidence to Pull
the Trigger Comes
from Within
S
uccessful trading is all about diligence and hard work and having a
winning attitude! Great traders take the trades that were developed
with thought and with keen observations that were based on prede-
fined trading signals. This mentality will help you develop the confidence to
execute when a trading opportunity presents itself. Lack of confidence and
fear are your enemies. Trading on a rule-based system will help you over-
come most emotional issues as long as you are trading based on a signal or
trigger. Never take action on anticipating the signal. If the rule states to
buy when Xcrosses over Y, you have to wait for the cross rather than an-
ticipating that the cross is about to occur. That is what triggermeans: It is
a call to action based on a conditional change.
Many experienced losing traders who have come to me for help have a
common problem—they try to jump the gun and try to outguess the market.
They have this feeling that they will miss the opportunity if they don’t act.
By now, you know what a candle chart is; and you have read many times
that it is imperative that you wait for the close of the time period for which
you are trading to closebefore acting on a buy or a sell signal. Look at Fig-
ure 12.1—the candle on the left may have given an impression that a bull-
ish breakout would materialize. However, keep in mind that unless you
waited for the close, it really formed a doji. Imagine getting all wrapped up
emotionally, thinking you were missing a great buying opportunity only to
experience buying the high of the time period because you failed to be pa-
tient and disciplined in waiting for the time period to conclude, assuring
you of the buy signal, or of the higher close.
307

c12.qxd 9/25/06 8:44 AM Page 308
308 CANDLESTICK AND PIVOT POINT TRADING TRIGGERS
FIGURE 12.1
If you anticipate a signal, you might be right; and there are times when
you can anticipate taking a trade based on a formulated, educated guess.
One such scenario would be to make a buying decision based on what I call
a “gap band” play. That is when the market departs too far from the pivot
point moving average, which for a buying opportunity would be defined as
a potentially overstretched price extreme or oversold market condition.
Armed with the longer-term numbers, such as a monthly second support (S-
2) target, I would look to go long but with partial positions; or I would sim-
ply scale into a position with from one-quarter up to one-third of my normal
lot size or positions.
Here is where it might seem like I would be playing the “catch the
falling knife” game, which I am. But when the market has the capacity to
make a major price reversal, especially when several indicators line up,
such as stochastics warning of bullish convergence, the Commodity Fu-
tures Trading Commission (CFTC) Commitment of Traders (COT) report
shows a major imbalance, as discussed. Then if the market has been in a
long-term downtrend and shows that prices have departed too far from the
mean, that is what spotting a buying opportunity is about. That is also
when, under these certain conditions, it is apropriate to anticipate a trade.
You should cut back on your initial position size and set a risk factor such
as a conditional setup if the market, for instance, makes a lower closing
low. You can also add a time element, such as “If the market does not re-
verse in X amount of periods, then get out.” In a situation like this, you
could implement a longer-term option strategy, such as buying call options.
(I did not go into options in this book because that subject matter was cov-
ered in my first book on page 217.) Options are a great investment vehicle
that offers traders peace of mind and confidence to pull the trigger in highly
volatile and precarious situations, such as picking longer-term tops and
bottoms, especially in the bullish scenario just described. Remember, I
have stated many times that as traders, we “look for opportunity and then
apply a strategy.” That is how we capture potential profits on big reversals.

c12.qxd 9/25/06 8:44 AM Page 309
Confidence to Pull the Trigger Comes from Within 309
Anticipating trades is a dangerous game, so you need to take that into con-
sideration. If you ask yourself the right questions, then you can develop a
solid trading plan. One such question is, “Is the risk worth the reward?” If it
is, take the opportunity.
WAIT FOR THE TRADE SIGNALS
For day, short-term, or swing trading, you need to wait for signals and trade
by those signals. That seems easier said than done. But it is a common mis-
take that I have helped traders with, especially when they have jumped the
gun, anticipating a buy signal from an indicator such as stochastics. We
went over the stochastics %K and %D 20-level line-cross signal. Figure 12.2
shows a detailed description of how to apply the 20 percent line closing sig-
nal properly, using the market’s price action while waiting for the close of
a time period to keep you from anticipating a trade. It also demonstrates
when it is more apropriate to enter a long. If you learn what a true signal is,
based on the close of a time period, and if you repeat that successful action,
then you will develop the skills needed to have the confidence to consis-
FIGURE 12.2
Used with permission of www.GenesisFT.com.

c12.qxd 9/25/06 8:44 AM Page 310
310 CANDLESTICK AND PIVOT POINT TRADING TRIGGERS
tently apply this method. Ultimately, your performance and trading results
will improve.
We discussed in Chapter 3 how to use the stochastics oscillator prop-
erly. It is so important. Let’s review: If you anticipated a buy signal based on
the stochastics %K and %D hook crossover the first time, you should notice
how either of the two closed above the 20 percent line in Figure 12.2. In ad-
dition, you did not see a higher closing high collaborate a buy signal. An-
ticipating without confirming factors or misreading a signal can and usually
does result in losses. Notice that the second signal where both %K and %D
cross and close above the 20 percent level is confirmed with a higher clos-
ing high. This is a confirming signal and will put you in a better mindset and
more often than not on the profitable side of the ledger. Remember, your
mind can and does play tricks on you when you are trading. That little sub-
conscious voice will tell you to just hang in there, to just keep holding on to
the loser, because the market will bounce back. Odds are that fear takes
over and you sell out of a long, right on the low of the move. You cannot act
on emotional impulse. If you act on impulse and you are wrong, you need
to get out immediately once and if the market breaks further against you,
because the emotional state of greed got you into the trade and the emo-
tional state of fear will get you out. Usually it is on the low. If you wait for
a true buy signal based on the closing price action, you are trading with the
current flow of the market. This method of trading, once you see consistent
results, will increase your confidence; and that will give you what it takes
to become a successful trader consistently over time.
THE RIGHT FRAME OF MIND
Many times traders subconsciously sabotage themselves inadvertently.
Avoid putting yourself in a situation that will cause you to be skeptical or
afraid before you trade. A better way to state it is, do not trade while un-
dergoing a major personal setback. This would include stressful events like
buying or selling a house, moving, sickness, a change in careers or a loss of
a job, a death in the family, or loss of a friend. A breakup in a relationship
or a divorce can also cause undue stress. Try to make educated decisions,
and make sure you have the time to invest in your work before putting on
any trades. Remember that it is alright to be wrong; just don’t be wrong all
the time, making the same mistakes over and over again. If you follow a
proven strategy, you are already aware that there will be losses. We dis-
cussed this in Chapter 11. If you are trading on the edge, not in the right
frame of mind, angry, or upset, then you have lost the emotional edge that
is needed to stay focused and disciplined.

c12.qxd 9/25/06 8:44 AM Page 311
Confidence to Pull the Trigger Comes from Within 311
If you are not trading with an indicator, a plan, or a software program,
then write your rules down on your computer screen. This is one method
that can help keep you on track when you start trading out of impulse or
from an emotional state of mind.
TRACK AND CHART YOUR TRADES
A trading diary is a great way to check and confirm your trading execution
entries and exits. In fact, most charting software has the capability to go
back to see when you executed a trade. Think what this can do for a trader.
If it is followed properly, it can and most likely will help you to improve
to a new level of self-discipline and ultimately lead to increasing your self-
confidence. How? If you execute when the signals call for action, you can
validate whether you responded when called to do so. You can check your
work. You will find out if you hesitated when your methods called for you
to exit and if you timed it per the system or not. One lesson we teach our
students at Trading Triggers University is to save a chart and print it out
with the entry scale-out and exit. Printing the chart out helps you to see
clearly how you respond or react to the trade signals. It will reinforce the
validity of your system or any system, including my Defcon program with
Genesis Software. By printing out and cataloging your trades by a chart,
you will gain more experience in identifying the patterns that drive your
trading signals. It also keeps track of or “inventories” what went right or
what went wrong with a trading plan. It will allow you to study and exam-
ine the results in black and white. On successful trading days, it will be
good to capitalize on your successes so that they can be repeated. Of
course, on bad days, it can allow you to focus on what went wrong so that
you can understand and improve on it so that you stop repeating the same
mistakes over and over again.
TWO CASES IN POINT
If you map out a game plan, trade off the “numbers,” or have a trading sys-
tem, when you print out your chart and examine your trades, you are grad-
ing your own homework. I have posted on my web site a daily Dow Report
to which the Chicago Board of Trade links. Every day after the market
closes, I post two numbers based on my teachings and on what we went
over in this book. Those numbers are what I believe the high and/or low of
the session will be; and then, based on the market direction number, I will
post a trade recommendation. Figure 12.3 shows a direct quote that was for

c12.qxd 9/25/06 8:44 AM Page 312
312 CANDLESTICK AND PIVOT POINT TRADING TRIGGERS
FIGURE 12.3
Used with permission of esignal.com.
Monday, February 13, 2006. The initial resistance level was 10983, and my
target support was 10865. The exact low was 10865, and a high close doji
pattern formed.
This is not rocket science. Why would I state the day before what type
of pattern to look for and at what price? We know the reasons why I select
a high close doji trigger based on the statistical findings in Chapter 7. When
I introduce two other dimensional market analysis approaches, such as a
moving average and pivot point analysis, all you need is the patience to wait
for the signal to materialize. It is a high-probability setup; and in this case,
the trade resulted in a 38-point gain, or $190 per contract, in less than an
hour. The only drawback on this trade was that you had to wait until the
end of the day for it to materialize. No pressure, no worries, just profits. A
nice trade. And if you print out a chart and plot your entries and exits, you
will begin to see more clearly how a trade develops; and you will reinforce
your subconscious mind on what to look for in the next trade and improve
your confidence from within to win.
There are many who visit my site just to see my numbers selection for
the market. I also include what the projections are for the week. For day

c12.qxd 9/25/06 8:44 AM Page 313
Confidence to Pull the Trigger Comes from Within 313
traders and swing traders, it helps them also identify a potential confluence
support level based on pivot point analysis. Feel free to visit and check the
numbers yourself at www.nationalfutures.com; just click on the link that
says Daily Dow Report. Even better:You now have your own Pivot Point
Calculator, provided on the accompanying CDto this book.
Another case in point as to why it is helpful to print out and catalogue
charts that track your trades is that it will help you to visually back-test the
methods. The more you see the patterns recur, the more assurance you will
have in the methodology.
The topic I covered in Chapter 5, demonstrating how to filter the pivot
point price projections, based on the moving average approach, gives me
an edge by reducing the noise or eliminating excess information. It helps
me to narrow the field to what the potential range might be of a given mar-
ket for a specific time frame. If I have a predetermined point of view that
the market might see a low of 1257 and a high of 1273, once I identify a pat-
tern and conditional change in the price action, I can enter a position. In
Figure 12.4, I have a trade example in the e-mini–S&P (Standard &Poor’s)
that demonstrates how the market was contained within the bearish target
FIGURE 12.4
Used with permission of esignal.com.

c12.qxd 9/25/06 8:44 AM Page 314
314 CANDLESTICK AND PIVOT POINT TRADING TRIGGERS
selected pivot point numbers based on the system. Remember, if bearish,
then the target low will be near S-2 and the high will be near the first re-
sistance level (R-1). If you stick to the rules and look for buy signals near
support and sell signals near resistance, follow the game plan, add the
other two dimensional factors such as a high close doji or hammer pattern,
with the moving average indicating a conditional change, then you enter a
position. As the market starts to show momentum loss as indicated by
shadows, scale out of half of your positions, place a hard stop at break-
even, and then wait to see the flow of the market. If you print out your
chart and plot your entry price, your scale-out price, and then the price
where you exited on the balance of your positions, you will not only grade
the trading system but also your performance and how you react to mar-
ket conditions.
SIMULATED TRADING
It goes without saying that the more practice you have, the better you will
perform. But if you practice the wrong thing over and over, then there is lit-
tle hope for improvement. That is not a line for a trader—that was a line
from a golf pro to a bad golfer. It just so happens that it applies to trading.
Almost any brokerage firm will give you a free trial to a simulated trading
account for you to bang around on. With no real money on the line, you re-
ally are not putting your time to good use. It is extremely advisable if you
never traded or if you switch to a new company to get accustomed to the
trading platform that may be unique to that company. That makes all the
sense in the world.
A trader needs to take action when a trigger is generated, rather than
taking a wait-and-see attitude and then reacting to the market long after the
market has moved. As a trader, you need to be quick. A sudden brain spasm
spawned by fear, doubt, or greed will most likely not bring consistently
good results. Hesitation is a trader’s enemy; that is why I say, “Plan your
trade, and then trade your plan.”
Simulated trading can help you test a trading method, but what about
testing your emotional response to market conditions? How will you de-
velop the confidence from within to win? What will seriously help the
trader who enters too early or too late and can’t hold on to the winner?
What can help the trader who hesitates and can’t pull the trigger?
For starters, you need to not trade with what we call “scared money.”
That’s the money that you are afraid of losing, that you protect so well that
you end up losing it. Remember in Chapter 11 that we went over the per-
formance sheet on the trading system results. The payout ratio is the

c12.qxd 9/25/06 8:44 AM Page 315
Confidence to Pull the Trigger Comes from Within 315
amount of the average winner versus the loser. If you cut out of a winning
trade too early and do so randomly because you need to make a profit, then
you are possibly setting yourself up for a financial meltdown because you
are not letting your winners ride.
One question that new investors ask me is why they did better at paper
trading than they did when they traded with real money. The answer is
easy. They let their emotions such as fear, doubt, complacency, greed, anx-
iety, excitement, and false pride interfere with their rational and intellectual
thoughts. When dealing with real money, you are faced with the realization
that you and your money can part.
Simulated trading is good to understand the mechanics of a trading ex-
ecution platform. However, putting real money on the line is what will test
your trading skills. Here is a suggestion: If you want to really see if you have
what it takes to be a professional trader who can execute a testable trading
system, then trade with the smallest lot or position size for a period of six
weeks or two months. You may not make lots of money if you are consis-
tently right, but you will develop the confidence to act on your signals when
your self-imposed training session is completed. If you trade stocks, in-
stead of trading 200 shares of an $80 or $100 stock, trade 50 shares. This
will help you feel more at ease, and it will also put your emotions to the test
as you are trading with real money.
Here is another suggestion: Open an ultra-mini-sized foreign exchange
(forex) account and apply the trading signal to that market. This is a nifty
idea for those who are beginners and still have day jobs. The markets trade
24 hours a day, you can afford to hold positions overnight, and you have
money on the line so that you will be more realistic in execution of your
trading plan. You can trade at night and execute trading signals in an ex-
tremely liquid market. If you have a system that works reasonably well
based on statistical back-testing studies, the only confidence that should be
in question is your ability to execute the signals. That is what trading a
mini-forex account can do for you. It will exercise your emotional intellect.
You will learn that when you place a trade, it is an educated decision, not
merely a guess. One web site to visit is www.fxtriggers.com to help select
a forex account and to open a simulated trading account and develop the
knowledge that will give you the confidence to execute and act on the trad-
ing signals. Building confidence in yourself and in your trading skills is ex-
tremely important in stimulating an optimistic winning attitude. Opening a
mini-forex account just may help a newcomer using a technical-based sys-
tem. Over a period of time, as your trading skills improve, so will your atti-
tude. As Thomas Jefferson once said, “Nothing can stop the man with the
right mental attitude from achieving his goal: Nothing on earth can help the
man with the wrong mental attitude.”
If you want to follow what the moneymakers do, have a good plan,

c12.qxd 9/25/06 8:44 AM Page 316
316 CANDLESTICK AND PIVOT POINT TRADING TRIGGERS
method, or system and execute when a trigger presents a call to action.
Maintain a winning attitude!
I believe the principles in this book combining candles and pivots will
keep you on the right side of the profit ledger. It is the method I have used
for over 25 years. I have taught my own family to use these setups, and they
have served us well. My former students have expressed gratitude in seeing
a method and applying the concepts whether it is stock, futures, or forex.
Some have moved on to open their own brokerage firms, and even other ed-
ucators come to learn my technique. There is back-tested data to support
the validity and frequency of patterns. All you need to do is apply the
knowledge and follow the rules.
LIVE BY THE RULES
If you follow the rules of any methodology, then you have a better chance
of succeeding. That applies toward any aspect in life, for that matter. As
Leonardo da Vinci stated, “Simplicity breeds elegance.” Keep things simple.
• Look for buy signals near support.
• Look for sell signals near resistance.
• When the system triggers a signal, act on it.
• When a system says get out, get out!
I wish you well in all your trading endeavors. Remember that if you act
on validated signals, your actions are validated. If the method has merit,
then your rewards should have merit.
All the best,
John L. Person

bgloss.qxd 9/25/06 8:47 AM Page 317
Glossary
Actualize The underlying assets or instruments that are traded in the cash market.
Adjustable peg An exchange rate regime in which a country’s exchange rate is de-
termined (i.e., pegged) in relation to another currency, often the dollar or French
franc, but may be changed from time to time.
Aggregate demand Total demand for goods and services in a country’s econ-
omy; includes private and public sector demand for goods and services within the
country and the demand of consumers and firms in other countries.
Aggregate risk Size of exposure of a bank to a single customer for both spot and
forward contracts.
Aggregate supply Total supply of goods and services in a country’s economy
from domestic sources (including imports) available to meet aggregate demand.
Appreciation Describes the strengthening of a currency in response to market de-
mand rather than by official action.
Arbitrage The action of a simultaneous buy and sell of a similar or like commod-
ity or futures product that may be made in different contract months, on different
exchanges, and in different countries in order to profit from a discrepancy in price.
Arbitrage channel The range of prices within which there will be no possibility to
arbitrage between the cash and futures market.
Ask The price at which a currency or instrument is offered.
Asset In the context of foreign exchange, the right to receive from a counterparty
an amount of currency either in respect of a balance sheet asset, such as a loan, or
at a specified future date in respect of an unmatched forward or spot deal.
Asset allocation Dividing instrument funds among markets to achieve diversifi-
cation or maximum return.
At best An instruction given to a dealer to buy or sell at the best rate that can be
obtained in a given time period.
At or better An order to deal at a specific rate or better.
317

bgloss.qxd 9/25/06 8:47 AM Page 318
318 GLOSSARY
Backwardation The amount by which the spot price exceeds the forward price.
Balance of payments A systematic record of economic transactions during a
given period for a country. (1) The term is often used to mean either (i) balance of
payments on “current account” or (ii) the current account plus certain long-term
capital movements. (2) The combination of the trade balance, current balance, cap-
ital account, and invisible balance, which together make up the balance-of-pay-
ments total. Prolonged balance-of-payment deficits tend to lead to restrictions in
capital transfers and/or decline in currency values.
Bank rate The rate at which a central bank is prepared to lend money to its do-
mestic banking system.
Base currency United States dollars; the currency to which each transaction will
be converted at the close of each position.
Basis The difference between the cash price and the futures price.
Basis point For most currencies, denotes the fourth decimal place in the ex-
change rate and represents 1/100 of 1 percent (0.01%). For such currencies as the
Japanese yen, a basis point is the second decimal place when quoted in currency
terms or the sixth and seventh decimal places, respectively, when quoted in recip-
rocal terms.
Basis trading Taking opposite positions in the cash and the futures markets with
the intention of profiting from favorable movements in the basis.
Basket A group of currencies normally used to manage the exchange rate of a cur-
rency.
Bear An investor who believes that prices are going to fall.
Bearish A down-trending market or a period in which prices depreciate in value.
Bid The price at which a buyer has offered to purchase a currency or instrument.
Book The summary of currency positions held by a dealer, a desk, or a room; a
sum total of assets and liabilities.
Bretton Woods The site of the conference that in 1944 led to the establishment of
the postwar foreign exchange system that remained intact until the early 1970s.
The conference resulted in the formation of the International Monetary Fund (IMF).
The system fixed currencies in a fixed exchange rate system with 1 percent fluctu-
ations of the currency to gold or to the U.S. dollar.
Bullish Referring to an up-trending market or to a period in which prices appre-
ciate in value.
Bull market A prolonged period of generally rising prices.
Bundesbank Central Bank of Germany.
Cable A term used in the foreign exchange market for the U.S. dollar/British
pound rate.
Candlestick charts Charting method that involves a graphic presentation of the

bgloss.qxd 9/25/06 8:47 AM Page 319
Glossary 319
relationship between the open, the high, the low, and the close. Color schemes are
used to illustrate the real body of a candle, which is the difference between a lower
close than the open (black or dark) and a higher close than the open (white).
Capital risk The risk arising from a bank having to pay the counterparty without
knowing whether the other party will or is able to meet its side of the bargain.
Carrying charges The cost associated with holding or storing cash or physical
commodities and financial instruments. Four variables are involved: storage, insur-
ance, finance charges, and/or interest payments on borrowed monies.
Cash Usually refers to an exchange transaction contracted for settlement on the
day the deal is struck. This term is mainly used in the North American markets and
those countries that rely for foreign exchange services on these markets because of
time zone preference (i.e., Latin America). In Europe and Asia, cash transactions are
often referred to as “value same day deals.”
Cash market The market in the actual financial instrument on which a futures or
options contract is based.
Cash settlement A procedure for settling futures contracts through payment of
the cash difference between the future and the market price, rather than through
the physical delivery of a commodity.
CBOT Chicago Board of Trade.
Central bank A country’s head regulatory bank, which is responsible for the de-
velopment and implementation of monetary policy.
CFTC Commodity Futures Trading Commission, which is the federal regulatory
agency in charge of overseeing the futures and nonbank forex industry.
Closed position A transaction that leaves the trade with a zero net commitment
to the market with respect to a particular currency.
CME Chicago Mercantile Exchange.
COMAS Conditionally Optimized Moving Average System, which incorporates
two different time-period moving averages with two different variables, such as a
simple moving average based on the close and a second value based on the pivot
point.
Commission The fee that a broker may charge clients for dealing on their behalf.
Commodity A financial instrument or a product that is used in commerce and is
mainly traded on a regulated commodity exchange. The types of products are agri-
cultural (such as meats and grains), metals, petroleum, foreign currencies, stock
index futures, single stock futures, and financial instruments (such as interest rate
vehicles like notes and bonds).
Commodity trading advisor (CTA) A registered individual or entity that advises
others, for compensation or profit, in buying or selling futures contracts or com-
modity options; also includes exercising trading authority over a customer’s ac-
count and providing research and analysis through newsletters or other media.

bgloss.qxd 9/25/06 8:47 AM Page 320
320 GLOSSARY
Conversion The process by which an asset or liability denominated in one cur-
rency is exchanged for an asset or liability denominated in another currency.
Conversion account A general ledger account representing the uncovered posi-
tion in a particular currency. Such accounts are referred to as “position accounts.”
Convertible currency A currency that can be freely exchanged for another cur-
rency (and/or gold) without special authorization from the central bank.
Copey Traders’ slang for the Danish krone.
Correspondent bank The foreign bank’s representative who regularly performs
services for a bank that has no branch in the relevant center, e.g., to facilitate the
transfer of funds. In the United States, this often occurs domestically due to inter-
state banking restrictions.
Counterparty The other organization or party with whom an exchange deal is
being transacted.
Countervalue The dollar value of a transaction in which a person buys a currency
against the dollar.
Country risk The risk attached to a borrower by virtue of its location in a partic-
ular country; involves examination of economic, political, and geographical factors.
Various organizations generate country risk tables.
Coupon The interest rate on a debt instrument expressed in terms of a percent on
an annualized basis that the issuer guarantees to pay to the holder until maturity.
Cover To close out a short position by buying currency or securities that have
been sold short.
Covered arbitrage Arbitrage between financial instruments denominated in dif-
ferent currencies, using forward cover to eliminate exchange risk.
Credit risk Risk of loss that may arise on outstanding contracts should a coun-
terparty default on its obligations.
Cross rates Rates between two currencies, neither of which is the U.S. dollar.
Current account The net balance of a country’s international payments arising
from exports and imports together with unilateral transfers, such as aid and migrant
remittances; excludes capital flows.
Day trader A speculators who takes positions in commodities that are iquidated
prior to the close of the same trading day.
Dead cross A term used when a sell signal is generated when one or more
shorter-term moving averages cross below a longer-term moving average.
Deal date The date on which a transaction is agreed on.
Dealer A person who acts as a principal in all transactions, buying and selling for
his or her own accounts; opposite of broker.
Deal ticket The primary method of recording the basic information relating to a
transaction.

bgloss.qxd 9/25/06 8:47 AM Page 321
Glossary 321
Deferred month The more distant month in which futures trading is taking place,
as established from the active nearby or front contract delivery month.
Deflator Difference between real and nominal gross national product (GNP),
which is equivalent to the overall inflation rate.
Delivery date The date of maturity of a contract, when the exchange of the cur-
rencies is made; more commonly known as the “value date” in the forex or money
markets.
Delivery risk A term to describe when a counterparty might not be able to com-
plete one side of the deal, although willing to do so.
Depreciation A fall in the value of a currency due to market forces, rather than to
official action.
Discount rate The interest rate charged on loans by the Federal Reserve to mem-
ber banks.
Doji A candlestick term; used to describe a time period when the open and the
close are nearly exact. It is a strong sell signal, but a cautionary warning at bottoms.
Easing Modest decline in price.
Economic indicator A statistic that indicates current economic growth rates and
trends, such as retail sales and employment.
ECU European currency unit.
Effective exchange rate An attempt to summarize the effects on a country’s
trade balance of its currency’s changes against other currencies.
Elliott Wave Analysis theory developed by Ralph Elliott, based on the premise
that prices move in two basic types of waves: impulse waves, which move with the
main trend, and corrective waves, which move against the main trend.
Euro dollars U.S. dollars on deposit with a bank outside of the United States and,
consequently, outside the jurisdiction of the United States. The bank could be either
a foreign bank or a subsidiary of a U.S. bank.
European Monetary System (EMS) A system designed to stabilize if not elimi-
nate exchange risk between member states of the EMS as part of the economic con-
vergence policy of the European Union (EU). It permits currencies to move in a
measured fashion (divergence indicator) within agreed bands (the parity grid) with
respect to the ECU and consequently with each other.
Exchange control Rules used to preserve or protect the value of a country’s cur-
rency.
Exchange for physicals (EFP) A transaction generally used by two hedgers who
want to exchange futures for cash positions; also referred to as “against actuals” or
“versus cash.”
Exercise The process by which options traders convert an options position into
the underlying futures or derivative market; e.g., the buyer of a call option would

bgloss.qxd 9/25/06 8:47 AM Page 322
322 GLOSSARY
convert his or her calls for a long position, and the buyer of a put option would con-
vert his or her option to a short futures contract.
Face value The amount of money printed on the face of the certificate of a secu-
rity; the original dollar amount of indebtedness incurred.
Falling three methods A bearish continuation pattern similar to the Western
version of a bear flag. It is a four- but mostly a five-candle pattern composition.
Fast market Rapid movement in a market caused by strong interest by buyers
and/or sellers. In such circumstances, price levels may be omitted, and bid-and-
offer quotations may occur too rapidly to be fully reported.
Fed The United States Federal Reserve System. Federal Deposit Insurance Cor-
poration (FDIC) membership is compulsory for Federal Reserve members. The cor-
poration had deep involvement in the savings-and-loan crisis of the late 1980s.
Federal Reserve System The central banking system of the United States.
Fed fund rate The interest rate on Federal Reserve System funds. This is a closely
watched short-term interest rate because it signals the Fed’s view as to the state of
the money supply.
Fibonacci numbers and ratios A series of numbers that when added together
continue to infinity. The ratios are the math calculations, which are the sum of the
relationships between the numbers derived either from dividing the series numbers
or, in some cases, taking the square roots of the numbers. The common ratio num-
bers are 0.38%, 0.618%, 50%, and 100%.
Fill or kill An order that must be entered for trading, normally in a pit, three times;
is immediately canceled if not filled.
Financial instrument One of two basic types: a debt instrument, which is a loan
with an agreement to pay back funds with interest, and an equity security, which is
a share or stock in a company.
First notice day According to Chicago Board of Trade (CBOT) rules, the first day
on which a notice of intent to deliver a commodity in fulfillment of a given month’s
futures contract can be made by the clearinghouse to a buyer. The clearinghouse
also informs the sellers of whom they have been matched up with. Each exchange
sets its own guides and rules for this process.
Fixed exchange rate Official rate set by monetary authorities; often permits fluc-
tuation within a band.
Flexible exchange rate An exchange rate with a fixed parity against one or more
currencies with frequent revaluations.
Floating exchange rate An exchange rate determined by market forces. Even
floating currencies are subject to intervention by the monetary authorities.
FOMC Federal Open Market Committee, which sets U.S. money supply targets,
which tend to be implemented through Fed Fund interest rates, and so on.

bgloss.qxd 9/25/06 8:47 AM Page 323
Glossary 323
Foreign exchange (forex) The purchase or sale of a currency against sale or pur-
chase of another.
Forex market Usually referred to as the over-the-counter market where buyers
and sellers conduct foreign currency exchange business.
Forward margins Discounts or premiums between the spot rate and the forward
rate for a currency; usually quoted in points.
Forward operations Foreign exchange transactions on which the fulfillment of
the mutual delivery obligations is made on a date later than the second business day
after the transaction was concluded.
Forward outright A commitment to buy to or sell a currency for delivery on a
specified future date or period. The price is quoted as the spot rate plus or minus the
forward points for the chosen period.
Forward rate Quoted in terms of forward points, which represent the difference
between the forward rate and the spot rate. To obtain the forward rate from the ac-
tual exchange rate, the forward points are either added or subtracted from the ex-
change rate. The decision to add or subtract points is determined by the differential
between the deposit rates for both currencies concerned in the transaction. The
base currency with the higher interest rate is said to be at a discount to the lower in-
terest rate quoted currency in the forward market. Therefore, the forward points are
subtractedfrom the spot rate. Similarly, the lower interest rate base currency is said
to be at a premium, and the forward points are addedto the spot rate to obtain the
forward rate.
Free reserves Total reserves held by a bank minus the reserves required by the
authority.
Full carrying charge market A futures market where the price difference be-
tween delivery months reflects the total costs of interest, insurance, and storage.
Fundamental analysis A method of anticipating future price movement using
supply and demand information; also a method to study the macroeconomic factors
(including inflation, growth, trade balance, government deficit, and interest rates)
that influence currency and financial markets.
G7(Group of Seven) The seven leading industrial countries: the United States,
Germany, Japan, France, the United Kingdom, Canada, and Italy.
Gann, William D. An early pioneer in technical analysis who is credited with a
mathematical system based on Fibonacci numbers and with the Gann Square and
Cycle studies.
Gap A mismatch between maturities and cash flows in a bank or individual
dealer’s position book. Gap exposure is effectively interest rate exposure.
GLOBEX A global after-hours electronic trading system used on the Chicago Mer-
cantile Exchange (CME).

bgloss.qxd 9/25/06 8:47 AM Page 324
324 GLOSSARY
Golden cross A bullish term used when one or more shorter-term moving aver-
ages cross above a longer-term moving average; generally generates a buy signal.
Gold standard The original system for supporting the value of currency issued.
This is wherethe price of gold is fixed against the currency; it means that the in-
creased supply of gold does not lower the price of gold but causes prices to in-
crease.
Good until canceled An instruction to a broker that, unlike normal practice, does
not expire at the end of the trading day; usually terminates at the end of the trading
month.
Gravestone doji A long range day where the open and the close are near the low
of the range.
Gross Domestic Product (GDP) Total value of a country’s output, income, or ex-
penditure produced within the country’s physical borders.
Gross National Product(GNP) Gross domestic product plus “factor income from
abroad,” i.e., income earned from investment or work abroad.
Hammer A candlestick pattern that forms at bottoms. At market tops, the same
construction is called a “hanging man.” The shadow is generally twice the length of
the real body.
Harami A two-candle candlestick pattern that can be seen to mark tops and bot-
toms. The second candle of this formation is contained within the real body of the
prior session’s candle.
Hard currency Any one of the major world currencies that is well traded and eas-
ily converted into other currencies.
Head and shoulders A pattern in price trends that, according to chartists, indi-
cates a price trend reversal. The price has risen for some time, at the peak of the left
shoulder; profit taking has caused the price to drop or to level. The price then rises
steeply again to the head before more profit taking causes the price to drop to
around the same level as the shoulder. A further modest rise or level will indicate
that a further major fall is imminent. The breach of the neckline is the indication to
sell.
Hedging The practice of offsetting the price risk inherent in any cash market po-
sition by taking an equal but opposite position in the futures market. Hedgers use
the futures markets to protect their businesses from adverse price changes.
High wave A candle that has a wide range with a small real body that develops in
the middle of that range. It has significance as a reversal formation, especially if sev-
eral of these form in succession.
Horizontal spread The purchase of either a call or a put option and the simulta-
neous sale of the same type of option with typically the same strike price but with
a different expiration month; also referred to as a “calendar spread.”
IMF International Monetary Fund; established in 1946 to provide international liq-

bgloss.qxd 9/25/06 8:47 AM Page 325
Glossary 325
uidity on a short and medium term and to encourage liberalization of exchange
rates. The IMF supports countries with balance-of-payments problems with the pro-
vision of loans.
IMM International Monetary Market; part of the Chicago Mercantile Exchange
that lists a number of currency and financial futures.
Implied rates The interest rate determined by calculating the difference between
spot and forward rates.
Implied volatility A measurement of the market’s expected price range of the un-
derlying currency futures based on the traded option premiums.
Indicative quote A market maker’s price that is not firm.
Inflation Continued rise in the general price level in conjunction with a related
drop in purchasing power; sometimes referred to as an excessive movement in such
price levels.
Initial margin The margin required by a foreign exchange firm to initiate the buy-
ing or the selling of a determined amount of currency.
Interbank rates The bid and offer rates at which international banks place de-
posits with each other; the basis of the interbank market.
Intercommodity spread The purchase of a given delivery month of one futures
market and the simultaneous sale of the same delivery month of a different, but re-
lated, futures market.
Interdelivery spread The purchase of one delivery month of a given futures con-
tract and the simultaneous sale of another delivery month of the same commodity
on the same exchange; also referred to as an “intramarket spread” or “calendar
spread.”
Interest arbitrage Switching into another currency by buying spot and selling
forward, and investing proceeds in order to obtain a higher interest yield. Interest
arbitrage can be inward (from foreign currency into the local one) or outward (from
the local currency to the foreign one). Sometimes better results can be obtained by
not selling the forward interest amount. In that case, some treat it as no longer
being a complete arbitrage because if the exchange rate moved against the arbi-
trageur, the profit on the transaction may create a loss.
Interest rate swaps An agreement to swap interest rate exposures from floating
to fixed or vice versa. There is no swap of the principal. It is the interest cash flows,
be they payments or receipts, that are exchanged.
Intermarket spread The sale of a given delivery month of a futures contract on
one exchange and the simultaneous purchase of the same delivery month and fu-
tures contract on another exchange.
Internationalization Referring to a currency that is widely used to denominate
trade and credit transactions by nonresidents of the country of issue. The U.S. dol-
lar and the Swiss franc are examples.

bgloss.qxd 9/25/06 8:47 AM Page 326
326 GLOSSARY
Intervention Action by a central bank to effect the value of its currency by enter-
ing the market. Concerted intervention refers to action by a number of central
banks to control exchange rates.
Introducing broker (IB) A person or an organization that solicits or accepts or-
ders to buy or sell futures contracts or commodity options but does not accept
money or other assets from customers to support such orders.
Inverted market A futures market in which the relationship between two deliv-
ery months of the same commodity is abnormal.
Island chart pattern Formed when the market gaps in one direction and then in
the next session gaps open in the opposite direction, leaving the prior day’s bar or
range seeming like an “island” on the chart. At tops, this is extremely bearish; and
at bottoms, it is considered extremely bullish. This is a rare chart pattern and is sim-
ilar in nature to the Japanese candlestick pattern called the ”abandon baby.”
J trader An independent electronic trading order entry platform provider by Pats
Systems that routes orders to the exchanges trading systems, such as the Chicago
Board of Trade’s E-CBOT system and the Chicago Mercantile Exchange’s GLOBEX
system.
Lagging indicators Market indicators showing the general direction of the econ-
omy and confirming or denying the trend implied by the leading indicators.
Last trading day (LTD) The final day on which trading may occur in a given fu-
tures or options contract month.
Leading indicators Market indicators that signal the state of the economy for the
coming months. Some of the leading indicators include average manufacturing
workweek, initial claims for unemployment insurance, orders for consumer goods
and material, percentage of companies reporting slower deliveries, change in man-
ufacturers’ unfilled orders for durable goods, plant and equipment orders, new
building permits, index of consumer expectations, change in material prices, prices
of stocks, and change in money supply.
LEAPS Long-Term Equity Anticipation Securities; options that have an extended
life as long as five years; generally used for options on stocks.
Leverage The ability to control large dollar amounts of a commodity with a com-
paratively small amount of capital.
Liability In terms of foreign exchange, the obligation to deliver to a counterparty
an amount of currency either in respect of a balance sheet holding at a specified fu-
ture date or in respect of an unmatured forward or spot transaction.
Limit order A request to deal as a buyer or a seller for a foreign currency trans-
action at a specified price or at a better price, if obtainable.
Liquidation Any transaction that offsets or closes out a previously established po-
sition.
Liquidity The ability of a market to accept large transactions.

bgloss.qxd 9/25/06 8:47 AM Page 327
Glossary 327
Long The condition of having bought futures contracts or owning a cash
commodity.
Long-legged doji A specific doji that forms when the open and the close occur
near the middle of a wide-range trading session.
Maintenance margin A set minimum margin that a customer must maintain in
his or her margin account. If the cash amount in a trading account drops below the
margin level and a margin call is generated, then a trader must either send addi-
tional funds to get the account back to the initial margin level or liquidate positions
to satisfy the call.
Make a market The action of a dealer quoting bid and offer prices at which he or
she stands ready to buy and sell.
Managed float The regular intervention of the monetary authorities in the market
to stabilize the rates or to aim the exchange rate in a required direction.
Managed futures Represents an industry comprised of professional money man-
agers known as commodity trading advisors who manage client assets on a discre-
tionary basis, using global futures markets as an investment medium.
Margin The amount of money or collateral that must be initially provided or there-
after maintained to ensure against losses on open contracts. Initial margin must be
placed before a trade is entered. Maintenance or variation margin must be added to
initial margin to maintain against losses on open positions. The amount that needs
to be present to establish or thereafter maintain is sometimes referred to as “nec-
essary margin.”
Margin call A claim by one’s broker or dealer for additional good faith perfor-
mance monies, usually issued when an investor’s account suffers adverse price
movements.
Market maker A person or firm authorized to create and maintain a market in an
instrument.
Market order An order to buy or to sell a financial instrument immediately at the
best possible price.
Market profile A method of charting that analyzes price and volume in specific
time brackets.
Mark to market The daily adjustment of an account to reflect accrued profits and
losses; often required to calculate variations of margins.
Microeconomics The study of economic activity as it applies to individual firms
or well-defined small groups of individuals or economic sectors.
Midprice or middle rate The price halfway between two prices, or the average of
both buying and selling prices offered by the market makers.
Minimum price fluctuation The smallest increment of market price movement
possible in a given futures contract.

bgloss.qxd 9/25/06 8:47 AM Page 328
328 GLOSSARY
Momentum The measure of the rate of change in prices.
Morning doji star A bullish three-candle formation in which the middle candle is
formed by a doji.
Moving average A way of smoothing a set of data; widely used in price time series.
National Futures Association (NFA) The self-regulatory agency for futures and
options markets. The primary responsibilities of the NFA are to enforce ethical
standards and customer protection rules, to screen futures professionals for mem-
bership, to audit and monitor professionals for financial and general compliance
rules, and to provide for arbitration of futures-related disputes.
Nearby month The futures contract month closest to expiration. Also called the
spot month.
Net position The amount of currency bought or sold that has not yet been offset
by opposite transactions.
Offer The price at which a seller is willing to sell; the best offeris the lowest such
price available.
Offset The closing out or liquidation of a futures position.
Offshore The operations of a financial institution that, although physically lo-
cated in a country, has little connection with that country’s financial systems. In cer-
tain countries, a bank is not permitted to do business in the domestic market but
only with other foreign banks; this is known as an “offshore banking unit.”
One cancels other A contingency order instructing a broker to cancel one side
of a two-sided entry order.
Opening range A range of prices at which buy and sell transactions take place
during the first minute of the opening of the market for most markets.
Open interest The total number of futures or options contracts of a given com-
modity that have been neither offset by an opposite futures or option transaction
nor fulfilled by delivery of the commodity or option exercise. Each open transaction
has a buyer and a seller; but for calculation of open interest, only one side of the
contract is counted.
Open outcry Method of public auction for making verbal bids and offers in the
trading pits or rings of futures exchanges.
Option A contract that conveys the right, but not the obligation, to buy or to sell
a particular item at a certain price for a limited time.
Out-of-the-money option An option with no intrinsic value; i.e., a call whose
strike price is above the current futures price or a put whose strike price is below
the current futures price.
Overbought The condition of a specific move when the market price has risen
too far too fast and is set up for a corrective pullback or period of consolidation; the
opposite of oversold.

bgloss.qxd 9/25/06 8:47 AM Page 329
Glossary 329
Overnight A deal from today until the next business day.
Overnight limit Net long or short position in one or more currencies that a dealer
can carry over into the next dealing day. Passing the book to other bank dealing
rooms in the next trading time zone reduces the need for dealers to maintain these
unmonitored exposures.
Oversold The condition of a specific move when the market price has fallen and
is in a position for a corrective rally or a period of consolidation; the opposite of
overbought.
Par The face value of a security; e.g., a bond selling at par is worth the same dol-
lar amount it was issued for or at which it will be redeemed at maturity.
Parities The value of one currency in terms of another.
Pegged A system where a currency moves in line with another currency; some
pegs are strict while others have bands of movement.
Piercing pattern A candlestick formation involving two candles formed at bot-
toms of market moves. The first candle is a long dark candle; the second candle
opens lower than the dark candle’s low and closes more than half way above the
first candle’s real body.
PIP (percentage in points) One unit of price change in the bid/ask price of a cur-
rency. For most currencies, it denotes the fourth decimal place in an exchange rate
and represents 1/100 of 1 percent (0.01%).
Pit The area on the trading floor where futures and options on futures contracts
are bought and sold. It is customary for Chicago markets to refer to the individual
commodity trading areas as pits, whereas in New York, they are referred to as
“rings.”
Pivot points The mathematical calculation formula used to determine the sup-
port or resistance ranges in a given time period. These formulas can be used to cal-
culate intraday, daily, weekly, monthly, or quarterly ranges.
Point-and-figure A charting style that tracks the market’s price action by repre-
senting increases with plotting Xs on a chart and downside corrections with Os. Time
is not an issue with this method; rather, it is concerned with pure price movement.
Position The netted total commitments in a given currency; can be flat or square
(no exposure), long (more currency bought than sold), or short ( more currency
sold than bought).
Premium The dollar value amount placed on an option.
Prime rate Interest rate charged by major banks to their most creditworthy cus-
tomers.
Producer Price Index An index that shows the cost of goods and services to pro-
ducers and wholesalers.
Profit taking The unwinding of a position to realize profits.

bgloss.qxd 9/25/06 8:47 AM Page 330
330 GLOSSARY
Put option An option that gives the option buyer the right but not the obligation
to sell an underlying futures contract at the strike price on or before the expiration
date.
Quote An indicative price; the price quoted for information purposes but not to
deal.
Rally A recovery in price after a period of decline.
Range The difference between the highest and the lowest prices of a future
recorded during a given trading session.
Rate (1) The price of one currency in terms of another, normally against the U.S.
dollar (USD); (2) assessment of the creditworthiness of an institution.
Reaction A decline in prices following an advance.
Real body The section of a candlestick defined as the area established between
the opening and the closing of a particular time period.
Reciprocal currency A currency that is normally quoted as dollars per unit of cur-
rency rather than as the normal quote of units of currency per dollar. Sterling is the
most common example.
Relative Strength Index A technical indicator used to determine a market in an
overbought or oversold condition; was developed by Welles Wilder Jr. to help de-
termine market reversals.
Resistance point or level A price recognized by technical analysts as a price that
is likely to result in a rebound but if broken through is likely to result in a significant
price movement.
Revaluation Increase in the exchange rate of a currency as a result of official
action.
Revaluation rate The rate for any period or currency that is used to revalue a po-
sition or book.
Rickshaw doji A doji that has an unusually large trading range.
Risk management The identification and acceptance or offsetting of the risks
threatening the profitability or existence of an organization; with respect to foreign
exchange, involves consideration of market, sovereign, country, transfer, delivery,
credit, and counterparty risk, among other things.
Risk position An asset or liability that is exposed to fluctuations in value through
changes in exchange rates or interest rates.
Rollover An overnight swap; specifically, the next business day against the fol-
lowing business day; also called “tomorrow next” (Tom-next).
Round trip Buying and selling of a specified amount of currency.
Same-day transaction A transaction that matures on the day the transaction
takes place.

bgloss.qxd 9/25/06 8:47 AM Page 331
Glossary 331
Scalper A trader who trades for small, short-term profits.
Selling rate Rate at which a bank is willing to sell foreign currency.
Settlement date The date on which foreign exchange contracts settle.
Settlement price The last price paid for a commodity on any trading day. The ex-
change clearinghouse determines a firm’s net gains or losses, margin requirements,
and the next day’s price limits, based on each futures and options contract settle-
ment price; also referred to as “daily settlement price” or “daily closing price.”
Shadow The area on a candlestick between the high or the low in relation to the
open or the close.
Shooting star The candle that forms at tops of markets where the shadow is at
least twice the length of the real body and the real body forms near the low for the
session with little or no shadow at the bottom. This candle resembles an inverted
hammer.
Short The position in a futures market where a trader sells a contract with the in-
tention of buying it back at a lower price for a profit or if at a higher price for a loss.
An option trader would be considered “short the option” if he or she were a writer
of that option.
Short sale The sale of a specified amount of currency not owned by the seller at
the time of the trade; usually made in expectation of a decline in the price.
Slippage Refers to the negative (or depreciating) price value between where a
stop-loss order becomes a market order and where that market order may be filled.
Speculator An investor who is looking to profit from buying or selling derivative
products with the anticipation of profiting from price moves by trading in and out
of their positions.
Spinning tops A candle where the real body is small in nature with a large range
and with shadows at both ends.
Spot price The price at which a currency is currently trading in the spot market.
Spread (l)The difference between the bid and the ask prices of a currency; (2) the
difference between the price of two related futures contracts.
Spreading The simultaneous buying and selling of two related markets with the
expectation that a profit will be made when the position is offset.
Sterling British pound; otherwise known as cable.
Stochastics A technical indicator created by George C. Lane that gives an indi-
cation of when a market is overbought or oversold.
Stock index An indicator used to measure and report value changes in a selected
group of stocks.
Stocky Market slang for Swedish krona.
Stop-limit order A variation of a stop order in which a trade must be executed at

bgloss.qxd 9/25/06 8:47 AM Page 332
332 GLOSSARY
the exact price or no worse than a specific price. The limit side of the order limits
the slippage. It also does not ensure execution if the next best price is beyond the
limit side of the stop order until the limit or stop price is reached again.
Stop order An order to buy or to sell when the market reaches a specified point.
A stop order to buy becomes a market order when the futures contract trades at or
above the stop price. A stop order to sell becomes a market order when the futures
contract trades at or below the stop price.
Strike Price The price at which the futures contract underlying a call or put op-
tion can be purchased or sold.
Support A price level that attracts buyers.
Swap The simultaneous purchase and sale of the same amount of a given currency
for two different dates against the sale and the purchase of another. A swap can be
a swap against a forward. In essence, swapping is somewhat similar to borrowing
one currency and lending another for the same period. However, any rate of return
or cost of funds is expressed in the price differential between the two sides of the
transaction.
Swissy Market slang for Swiss franc.
Technical analysis The study of price and/or volume to anticipate future price
moves. Studies can include price patterns, mathematical calculations, and data re-
garding the open, the high, the low, and the close of a market.
Thin market A market in which trading volume is low and in which bid and ask
quotes are wide and the liquidity of the instrument traded is low.
Three crows A candlestick pattern consisting of three dark candles that close on
or at their lows. After an extended advance, this formation can be a strong reversal
pattern.
Three white soldiers A candlestick pattern consisting of three candles that close
at their highs and can indicate a continued advance. This pattern is a reliable indi-
cation that prices are moving higher, especially if they develop after a longer period
of consolidation at a bottom; opposite of three crow’sformation.
Tick A minimum change in price, up or down.
Tomorrow next (Tom-next) Simultaneous buying of a currency for delivery the
following day and selling for the spot day, or vice versa.
Transaction The buying or selling of currencies resulting from the execution of
an order.
Transaction date The date on which a trade occurs.
Uncovered Another term for an open position.
Undervaluation The condition of an exchange rate when it is below its purchas-
ing power parity.

bgloss.qxd 9/25/06 8:47 AM Page 333
Glossary 333
Uptick A transaction executed at a price greater than that of the previous trans-
action.
Volatility A measure of the amount by which an asset price is expected to fluctu-
ate over a given period.
Volume The number of purchases or sales of a commodity futures contract made
during a specified period of time; often the total transactions for one trading day.
Wash trade A matched deal that produces neither a gain nor a loss.
Windows A Japanese candlestick term referred to as the Western gap.
Working day A day on which the banks in a currency’s principal financial center
are open for business. For forex transactions, a working day occurs only if the
banks in both financial centers are open for business (all relevant currency centers
in the case of a cross are open).
Yield A measure of the annual return on an investment; also referred to as the
amount of interest on a debt instrument.

bgloss.qxd 9/25/06 8:47 AM Page 334

babout.qxd 9/27/06 8:46 PM Page 335
About the CD-ROM
INTRODUCTION
This appendix provides you with information on the contents of the CD that
accompanies this book. For the latest and greatest information, please
refer to the ReadMe file located at the root of the CD.
SYSTEM REQUIREMENTS
• A computer with a processor running at 120 Mhz or faster.
• At least 32 MB of total RAM installed on your computer. For best per-
formance, at least 64 MB is recommended.
• A CD-ROMdrive.
• Internet access.
• Windows Media Player.
USING THE CD WITH WINDOWS
To install the items from the CDto your hard drive, follow these steps:
1. Insert the CD into your computer’s CD-ROM drive.
2. Use the CD-ROM interface that appears to explore the contents of the
CD in a simple point-and-click way.
If the opening screen of the CD-ROM does not appear automatically,
follow these steps to access the CD:
335

babout.qxd 9/27/06 8:46 PM Page 336
336 ABOUT THE CD-ROM
1. Click the Start button on the left end of the taskbar, and then choose
Run from the menu that pops up.
2. In the dialog box that appears, type d:\setup.exe. (If your CD-ROM
drive is not drive d, fill in the appropriate letter in place of d.)This
brings up the CD interface described in the preceding set of steps.
WHAT’S ON THE CD?
The following sections provide a summary of the software and other mate-
rials you’ll find on the CD.
Content
There are more than one hour and three minutes of instructions on four
presentations.
Along with the Pivot Point Calculator, this CD covers:
• Introduction to pivot points (44:23).
• Tutorial on how to use the Pivot Point Calculator (9:38).
• Examples on how to use confluence of pivot points (11:13).
• How to use a pivot point trading system (7:46).
• Pivot Point Calculator.
• ReadMe.
In order to activate the Pivot Point Calculator, users need Internet ac-
cess. Any Internet speed will work. Users do not need high-speed DSL.
Applications
The following applications are on the CD:
Adobe Reader—Adobe reader is a freeware application for viewing files in
the Adobe Portable Document format.
Customer Care
If you have trouble with the CD-ROM, please call the Wiley Product Tech-
nical Support phone number at (800) 762-2974. Outside the United States,
call 1(317) 572-3994. You can also contact Wiley Product Techical Support

babout.qxd 9/27/06 8:46 PM Page 337
About the CD-ROM 337
at http://support.wiley.com. John Wiley &Sons will provide technical
support only for installation and other general quality-control items. For
technical support on the applications themselves, consult the program’s
vendor or author.
To place additional orders or to request information about other Wiley
products, please call (877) 762-2974.
Author’s Disclaimer
Stocks, futuress, forex, and options trading involves substantial risk. The
valuation of futures, forex, and options may fluctuate; and as a result,
clients may lose more than their original investment. In no event should the
content of this presentation be construed as an expressed or an implied
promise, guarantee, or implication by John Person or John Wiley &Sons,
Inc., that you will profit or that losses can or will be limited in any manner
whatsoever. Past results are no indication of future performance. Informa-
tion provided in this presentation is intended solely for informative, educa-
tional purposes and is obtained from sources believed to be reliable.
Information is in no way guaranteed. No guarantee of any kind is implied or
possible where projections of future conditions are attempted. There is a
risk of loss in trading stock, futures, forex, and options. One’s financial
suitability should be considered carefully before placing any trades.

babout.qxd 9/27/06 8:46 PM Page 338

bindex.qxd 10/11/06 11:35 AM Page 339
Index
Abandon baby formation, 197 Balance of positions, 274, 276
Acceptance Bank for International Settlements, 62,
of price, 68 65
of support and resistance level, 183 Bank of England, 61
Active day trading, 203 Bank of Japan, 72
Active management, 40 Bankruptcy, 19
Active systems trader, 281 Bank settlement close (NY), 130, 290
ActiveTradeMagazine,155–156 Bar charts, 81, 187
Adjustable rate mortgages (ARMs), 3 Basis, 145, 207
Advanced Micro Devices (AMD), Basket of diversified stocks, 34, 40
43–44, 46 Bayes, Thomas, 210
Advancing soldiers formation, 193 Bayesian theory, 210–211
Adverse markets, 36 Bayes rule, 211
Airline stocks, 58 Bear flags, 232, 236
Alcoa, 142, 227 Bearish conditions, seeBearish
Alpha, 5 market; Bearish trends
Alternative energy sources, 55 dark cloud cover, 193
Aluminum, 52 divergence pattern, 100–102
American Eagle Outfitters, 243 engulfing pattern, 199
American Jobs Creation Act, 61 falling three methods, 200
American Stock Exchange (AMEX), 42 harami doji, 197
Appel, Gerald, 103, 283 harami doji crosses, 192, 230
Apple Computer, Inc., 21–25, 28, 46, haramis, 184, 197
81–83, 113–114 top patterns, 197
Applied Materials, 44 Bearish market, 9, 80, 82, 89–90, 95,
Archer Daniels Midland, 50 118–119, 126, 133, 150, 155, 159,
Ascending triangles, 81 169, 190, 192, 227, 254, 266
Asian markets, 74, 129. Seealso Bearish trends, 79, 88, 166, 173–174,
China; Japan 177, 184
Ask, 64, 207 Beating the street, 160–161
Asset(s) Belt hold, 293
allocation, 48 Berkshire Hathaway, Inc., 61–62
classes, 16 Bernstein, Peter L., 12
Auction analogy, 78 Best Buy, 25–27, 46
Australian dollar, 72, 74 Bid, 64, 207
Bid-and-ask spread, 18, 34
Back-testing, 91, 98, 121, 204, 279, 290, Biofuel, 55
294, 301, 306 Biotechnology sector, 36
339

bindex.qxd 10/11/06 11:35 AM Page 340
340 INDEX
Black box trading system, 7, 122 Business cycles, 21
Black candle, 196 Business models, 21
Blow-off top formations, 68, 190, 230 Business plan, 7
Bond investments, 12, 152 Buy-and-hold investments, 8, 18, 28
Bond market, 4, 73, 136, 205, 220 Buy low, sell high, 217
Bond yields, 2, 51 Buy signals, 46, 48, 88, 90–91, 103, 103,
Bottom(s) 138, 142, 144, 178, 185, 216, 222,
exhaustion, 68, 190, 247 226, 230, 247, 250, 288
false, 100, 106, 119
hammer formations, 251 Call options, 16, 42, 46
implications of, 99, 100, 105, 136, Canadian dollar, 47, 64, 72, 209–211
138, 142, 146, 153, 187, 191, 193, Candle formations
196, 201, 205, 227, 241, 247, 254 bearish engulfing pattern, 185, 199
moving averages and, 171 bearish falling three methods, 200
Breakdown, 86, 203 bearish harami doji, 197
Breakeven, 232, 273 bullish engulfing pattern, 199
Breakouts, 81, 164, 166, 169, 202, 231 bullish harami doji, 198
British pound (GBP), 162, 175, 177, bullish piercing pattern, 198
191, 209–210, 216, 264, 288 bullish rising three methods, 201
Broadcom, 44 dark cloud cover, 198
Brokerage account, 17. Seealso doji, 185, 191–193, 215, 233
Trading account evening star, 140, 192, 197, 243
Broker/brokerage firm hammer pattern, 193–195
commissions, 34, 66 harami, 197,
functions of, 24, 36 implications of, 14, 55, 86
relationship with, 18 morning star, 184, 192, 196–197, 215,
trading procedures, 8 233
Buffett, Warren, 28–31, 61–62 shooting star, 195
Bull call spread, 23 tweezer bottoms, 201
Bullish conditions tweezer tops, 201
chart patterns, 81 Candlestick charting
convergence, 100, 117–119, 185, advantages of, 187
250–251 characteristics of, 8, 13, 44, 46, 60,
engulfing pattern, 185, 198–199 81, 97, 183, 188–190
harami doji, 198 formations, seeCandle formations
harami doji crosses, 192 trading trigger strategy, 203–211
implications of 162 Capital gains, 34
piercing pattern, 185, 193, 198 Capital preservation, 32
reversal candle pattern, 94, 185 Capitulation, 246
rising three methods, 200–201 Carry-trade strategy, 73
Bullish market, 9, 80, 82, 86, 89–90, Cash flow, positive, 5, 28
126, 136, 143, 159, 169, 189, 192, Cash market, 58
223, 254, 263 Catch the falling knife, 229
Bullish setup, 185 Caterpillar, 35–37
Bullish trends, 81, 84, 88, 173 Central banks, 2, 65, 72–73
Bull markets, 77, 95, 300 Chart formations, traditional, 14
Bunge Limited, 50–51 Charting software packages, 4, 8, 160

bindex.qxd 10/11/06 11:35 AM Page 341
Index 341
Chart pattern analysis, 65 Commodity Futures Trading
Chart-reading skills, 5, 14 Commission (CFTC)
Chase, Henry Wheeler, 123 CommitmentofTraders(COT)
Chicago Board of Trade (CBOT), 10, Report,58, 70–71, 127, 147–148,
29–31, 42, 47, 96, 130, 148–149, 308
152, 164–165, 171, 177, 185, 205, functions of, 71
219, 225, 220, 236, 239, 247, 288, insider trading, 70–72
291 Modernization Act, 64
Chicago Mercantile Exchange (CME), Commodity Research Bureau, see
3, 29–32, 66, 181, 290–291 Reuters/Jeffries CRB
China, 58 (Commodity Research Bureau)
Chopstick pattern, 201 Common sense, 130
Circuit City, 25–27, 46 Competition, 21, 63
Classic indicators, 159 CompleteGuidetoTechnicalTrading
Climaxing market condition, 69 Tactics:HowtoProfitUsing
Close, candle formations, 189–190 PivotPoints,Candlesticks, &
Close of business, 129–130 OtherIndicators,The(Person),
Close of market, seeClosing price 1, 13, 47, 123, 185, 279
candle formations, 189–190 Conditional change, 262–265, 277,
significance of, 14–15, 37, 78, 80, 82, 275
84, 90, 103, 126 Conditional Optimized Moving
Close-to-the-money options, 23, 46 Average System™(COMAS),
Closing price, 93, 159–161, 166, 168–171, 173–174, 216, 222, 231
168–169, 174,1 76, 185, 194 Conditional stop, 10
Closing time period, 90–91 Confluence
Cocoa, 52 characteristics of, 122, 226
Coefficient of variation, 260 importance of, 141–145
Coffee, 52 time and price, 141–143
Collar strategy, 23 at tops, 145–157
“Combining Cycles and Pivot Points to volatility, 143–145
Predict Market Values,” Congestion phase, 80, 164, 217
179–180 Consolidation/consolidation phase, 80,
Comcast Corporation, 252 82, 85–87, 94, 139, 162, 164–166,
Commercial forex trades, 72 175, 217 223, 237, 239, 243, 266,
Commissions, 18, 34, 38, 63, 65–66, 272–273, 300
292 Consumer Price Index, 52
Commodities/commodity market, see Consumer spending, 21
specifictypesofcommodities Continuation patterns, 193
characteristics of, 1, 3–4, 12, 14, 16, Contract size, 250
47 Contrarian approach, 77
historical prices, 52–53 Conundrum, 2, 51
influential factors, 53–54 Convergence, 100, 117–118, 141, 183,
resources, 52 185, 247, 252, 308
Commodity channel index (CCI), 122, Copper, 52
220 Corn, 52, 224
Commodity ETFs, 38–39 Corporation, formation of, 7
Commodity Exchange Act, 42 Cotton, 52

bindex.qxd 10/11/06 11:35 AM Page 342
342 INDEX
Countertrend trades, 88, 122, 193 Diversification, 9, 11–13, 15, 32, 34, 48,
Cross, 18. Seealsospecifictypesof 286
crossformations Doji pattern, seeHigh close doji
Crossover, seePivot point analysis (HCD); Low close doji (LCD)
Crude oil, 2–3, 33, 40, 47–48, 52 characteristics of, 136, 150, 184–185,
Cup formation, 166 191–193, 197–198, 204–205,
Currency ETFs, 37–38 210–211, 285
Currency traders, 73 evening star, 140, 192, 243
Current value, 183 harami, 185
Cyclical businesses, 19 harami crosses, 192, 230
Cyclical sector, 36 importance of, 214–215
long-legged, 192
%D, 95–99, 101–102, 218, 229, 252, 280, morning star, 184, 192, 197, 215, 233
309 moving averages, 171
Daily charts, 183, 188, 242 rickshaw, 142, 192
Daily Dow Report, 312 top, 145
Daily pivot points, 141, 145, 150–151, Dot-com bubble, 19, 31
153–156 Double bottoms, 203
Daimler Chrysler, 61 Dow futures, 149
Dark candles, 137, 174, 190, 198–199, Dow Jones Industrial Average, 16, 34,
234 137, 155, 171
Dark cloud cover, 184, 193, 198 Downside correction, 95
Day traders/day trading strategies, Downtrends/downtrending market, 34,
9–10, 12, 15–17, 29, 75, 77, 94, 69, 79, 84, 88, 90, 93, 95, 101,
97, 121, 139, 150, 177–178, 109, 141, 159, 162, 164, 167, 174,
182–183, 185, 217, 220, 231, 240, 177, 190–191, 194, 236, 239, 255,
248, 255, 272, 281, 288–290 262, 300
Dealer, forex markets, 64 Dragonfly formation, 191–192
Decision-making process, 13, 15, Drawdowns, 281–282, 293, 303
50–51, 70, 75, 82, 270–271, 308
Declining market, 60–61, 68, 97, 103, Earnings forecasts, 24
120, 234, 254, 266 Earnings per share, 42
Declining trend, 163 e-CBOT, 291
Deep-discount commission brokerage Economic conditions, influential
firms, 18 factors, 73, 153
Defcon program/system, 291–292, 295, Economic developments, 61
301, 311 Economic recovery, 3
Dell Inc., 24–25, 28, 46, 84, 178–179 Economic reports, market impact of,
Demark, Tom, 214 75
Depreciation, 162 Efficient market theory, 5
Derivatives, 13, 38, 65 Electronic day session, close of, 103
Descending triangle, 273 e-mini Standard & Poor’s (S&P)
Deutsche mark, 182 futures, 47, 86, 105, 108, 130,
Deutscher Aktien Index (DAX), 177 138, 165, 169, 171, 178, 205–206,
Diamonds, 149, 285 237, 240, 248, 248, 258, 276, 288,
Divergence patterns, 101–102, 183 292, 313

bindex.qxd 10/11/06 11:35 AM Page 343
Index 343
Emotional control, 6–7, 10, 32, 63, 85, Extreme volatility, 163
122, 175–176, 178, 183, 187, 282, Exxon, 226
294
End-of-day chart, 224 Fair value, 162
End-of-day trading, 262 False bottom, 100, 106, 119
Energy futures contracts, 58 False breakdowns, 203
Energy sector, 2, 36, 52, 57 False breakouts, 202
Enron, 19 False high, 119
Entry point(s), seeBuy signals False signals, 15, 205
guidelines for, 270–273 FAO Schwartz, 19
importance of, 6, 58, 127, 154, 175, Fast stochastics, 95, 99, 220
177, 269–270, 316 Fear, 6, 10, 63, 123, 187, 282, 310
Entry target, 9, 35 Federal deficit, 2
Equal and opposite pattern, 201–203 Federal funds contracts, 30
Equity loss, 281–282 Federal Reserve, 2–3, 35, 51–52, 62
Equity markets, 65, 73, 152 Fees, forex markets, 63
EUR/USD, 210 Fiber optics, 20
Euro (EUR), 18, 33, 61, 64–65, 74, 98, Fibonacci corrections/extensions, 75
143, 208, 210, 231, 276, 288, 299, Fibonacci levels, 122
301 Fifteen-minute chart, 150, 153,
Euro Currency Trust (FXE), 37, 47 172–173, 224, 275
Euro futures contract, 66–67 Fifteen-minute time periods, 178, 214
European markets, 74–75, 129 Fight the tape, 85
Evening doji star, 140, 192, 243 Filtering, 185, 313
Evening star formations, 184, 197 Fiscal policy, 62
Exchange traded funds (ETFs) Fishers, Mark, 214
advantages/benefits of, 34, 46 Five-minute charts, 140, 157, 184–185,
characteristics of, 13–14, 16, 286 233, 239, 247–248, 250–251
commodity, 38–43, 53 Five-minute moving average pivot
currency, 37–38 point, 169
defined, 33 Five-minute time periods, 178, 214
development of, 34–36 Flag formations, 81, 231–232, 236
diamonds, 149 Flexi accounts, 63
hot sectors, 36–37 Flight to quality, 152
hot stocks, 36–37, 43–46 Forecasting, 80
Exhaustion bottom, 190, 247 Foreign currencies, 14, 17–18, 153. See
Exit points, seeExit strategy; Sell alsoForeign exchange
signals (FX/Forex) market specific
guidelines for, 270–273 foreigncurrencies
importance of, 269–270 Foreign exchange (FX/Forex) market
Exit strategy, 6, 9, 14, 35, 58, 97, 124, benefits of, 59, 63–64
127, 138–139, 154, 216, 230, 263, best time to trade, 295
316. SeealsoSell signals characteristics of, 16–17, 59, 103,
Expectations, 10 169, 203, 273
Exponential average, 103 classification of, 70–71
Exponential moving averages, 103 futures vs.,66–70

bindex.qxd 10/11/06 11:35 AM Page 344
344 INDEX
Foreign exchange (FX/Forex) market defined, 188
(continued) doji formation, 192–193, 196
insider trading, 70–72 Gauge in sensitivity, 99
leverage, 59–60 GBP/USD, 210
long position, 60 General Electric, 16
macroeconomic factors, 73–75 Genesis Software, 169, 178, 204, 231,
margin, 59–60 288, 295, 297, 311
market events, influential, 72–73 Geopolitical events, 61, 72–74, 153, 204
pivot point analysis, 122 German market, 177
reversals, 87 Globalization, economic impact of,
setups, 214 1–2, 57–58
short selling, 60–63 GLOBEX, 291
spot forex markets, 65 Goal-setting, importance of, 9
spreads, 64 Going long, 14, 97, 138, 167, 219, 248,
stocks compared with, 65–66 308. SeealsoLong position
trading system applications, 299–306 Going short, 97. SeealsoShort
triggers, 214 position; Short sales; Short
volume and, 78–79 selling
Fractal relationships, 223–224 Gold
Fry pan pattern, 193 contracts, 237
Full-sized positions, forex markets, 63 ETF, 40, 42
Fundamental analysis, 42, 55–56, 60, prices, 1–3, 33, 51–52, 153, 205–206
66, 184 Good faith deposit, 47
Fundamental events, impact of, 54– Google, 29, 244
55 Gravestone formation, 191
Futures/futures contract, seeFutures Great Britain, seeBank of England;
market British pound
characteristics of, 14, 16–17, 42, 103, Greed, 6, 63, 123, 187, 282, 310
148, 153 Green candle, 189, 246
defined, 47 Greenspan, Alan, 2, 51
Forex market compared with, 66–70
Futures market Half-position scale-out strategy,
case illustration, 53 232–234, 274, 277, 314
characteristics of, 46–47, 58, 64, 94, Hammer formation, seeJackhammer
169, 203, 207, 273 characteristics of, 145, 166, 169,
leverage, 59 171–172, 193–195, 205, 210–211,
pivot point analysis, 130 250, 270–271, 314
stock index futures, 47–50 inverted, 191, 195
tandem trading techniques, 50–53 Hanging man formation, 191–192,
triggers, 219–223, 236–240 194
FX currency futures contract, 38–39 Harami
fxtriggers.com, 315 crosses, 184
doji, 185
Galton, Frances, 12 doji crosses, 192, 230
Gann fan angles, 122 formation, 185, 193, 197–198
Gap(s) Hard stop order, 232
band play, 308 Heating oil, 52

bindex.qxd 10/11/06 11:35 AM Page 345
Index 345
Hedge funds, 58, 91 IBM, 83, 227
Hedging, 4, 23, 34, 36, 46 Impulsive trades, 309–310. Seealso
Hidden support/resistance, 226, 241 Emotional control
High(s) In-and-out players, 64
implications of, 14, 78, 80–82, 84, In-the-money call options, 46
123, 126, 138, 159–160, 167, Indecision, 184, 192. Seealso
172–174, 177, 184–185, 188–189, Decision-making process
192–193, 195, 201, 203, 207–209, Index futures, 13
217, 219, 223, 225–228, 230, 232, Indicators, defined, 15. Seealso
235, 251, 254, 274 specifictypesofindicators
prediction of, 132 Individual investors, 46, 63
stop order placement, 263–265 Inflation, 3, 52–53, 73, 153
High close doji (HCD) Inflationary pressure, 2
characteristics of, 17, 97–98, 106, Information gathering, 270
109, 144, 157, 213, 215–216, Information overload, 126, 131–140
254–255, 259, 285, 290, 314 Information resources, types of, 18, 75,
fractal relationships, 223–225 178, 185
futures market triggers, 219–223 Initial margin requirements, 240
spot forex triggers, 216–219 Initial public offerings (IPOs), 29–30
stock, intraday triggers on, 225– Insider trading, 58, 70–72
229 Intel, 43–45
trigger, 48 Interbank market, 64
High-frequency formations, 193 Intercommodity relationships, 152
High-probability setup, 312 Interdependent markets, 65. Seealso
High-risk, high reward stock Intermarket relationships
investments, 29 Interest rates, 2–3, 35, 51, 62, 65,
Hirsch, Jeff, 282 72–73, 152–153
Histograms, 104–109 IntermarketAnalysis:Profitingfrom
Historical data, 279, 282–285 GlobalMarketRelationships
Historical performance, 2–3 (Murphy), 50
Holding company depositary receipt Intermarket relationships, 2, 46, 48,
(HOLDR), 16, 36 51
Holding periods, 281, 290 Intermediate-term traders/trading, 88,
HOLDRs, 34, 39, 46–47 263
Homeland Investment Act (HIA), 61 International Monetary Market (IMM),
Home office deductions, 7 66
“Hook” buy/sell signal, 96–97 Internet sector, 36
Hot stocks, 36–37, 43–46 Intraday charts, 60
Hourly charts, 183, 188 Intraday trades/trading, 10, 223–225,
Housing bubble, 141 231, 247
HowIMadeOneMillionDollarsLast Inventory, commodity market and,
YearTradingCommodities 54–56
(Williams), 123 Inversion effect, 2
HowtoMakeMoneyinCommodities Inverted hammer, 191, 195
(Keltner), 123 Investment vehicles, overview of,
Hurricane Katrina/Rita/Wilma, 53–55, 16–18
57 Investment Company Act of 1940, 42

bindex.qxd 10/11/06 11:35 AM Page 346
346 INDEX
iShares Long position(s), 25, 42, 60, 63, 71, 98,
characteristics of, 40 104, 144, 146, 150, 216, 223–224,
Goldman Sachs Semiconductor 243, 246, 248
(IGW), 43–45 Long-term investments
Silver Trust (SLV), 42 characteristics of, 28–31
Island top formation, 197 short-term trading compared with,
31–33
Jackhammer Long-term traders, 8, 66, 77, 127
characteristics of, 109, 118, 172, 213, Long-term trends, 91
246, 252–255, 260 Losing traders, characteristics of,
trading rules, 246–250 11–12, 307
Japan Losing trades, 7, 10, 15, 79, 124
Bank of Japan, 72 Lots, 140, 308
Japanese yen (JPY), 18, 72, 74, Low(s)
147–148, 166, 172,1 77, 208, 210, implications of, 78, 80, 82, 84, 103,
233 126, 138–139, 155, 159–160, 167,
market conditions, 72–73 172–174, 177, 184, 188–189,
JDS Uniphase, 20 192–193, 201, 203–204, 207–209,
Jobs, Steve, 22 219, 223, 226–228, 232, 235, 239,
248, 251, 254, 274, 276
%K, 95–99, 101–102, 218, 229, 252, 280, prediction of, 132
309 stop order placement, 263–265
Kaufman, Perry, 179, 181 Low close doji (LCD)
Keitner, Chester W., 123 case illustration, 241
Kilman, Peter, 204, 291 characteristics of, 17, 101, 109, 213,
Kmart, 19 230, 254, 259, 264, 275, 290
futures markets triggers, 236–240
Lagging indicators, 104, 160, 220, spot forex triggers, 231–236
282–283 stock triggers, 241–242
Lane, Carrie, 181 trading rules, 230–231
Lane, George C., 3, 94–95, 181 Lucent Technologies, Inc., 19, 28
Large-money traders, 192
Last conditional change, 263 Macroeconomics, 73–75, 204
Latin America, 58 Management fees, 34
Lean hogs, 52 Management quality, 21
Lefevre, Edwin, 6 Margin, seeInitial margin requirement
Length of candle, 190 account, 29
Let’s make a deal strategy, 15–16, characteristics of, 38, 59–60, 97, 139,
22–24 301
Leverage, 10, 42, 58–60, 63, 71, 300 requirement, 47–48, 300
Liquidation, 171, 220, 272, 278 system, 47
Liquidity, 37, 248 Market analysis, 48
Liquid markets, 169 Market capitalization, 42
Live cattle, 52 Market conditions
Livermore, Jesse, 6, 10, 123 determination of, 77–91
London Bullion Market Association, 42 flow of, 80
Long-legged doji, 192 impact of, 9, 13, 68, 75, 254–255

bindex.qxd 10/11/06 11:35 AM Page 347
Index 347
indicators of, 125–126 blow-off tops, 114
recognition of, 78 bullish convergence, 117–118
significance of, 136–137 indicators, 115–116
trend analysis, 82 overbought market, 112–113
Market direction number, 161 questions for trader to ask, 118–120
Market entry, 154, 175, 177. Seealso volume, 111–112, 114–116
Buy signals; Entry point Monetary policy, 62
Market events, influential, 72–73 Money flow, 57–58
Market performance theories, 5–6 Money management
Market rallies, 2, 9, 21, 88 guidelines for, 301
Market reversals, 143, 154, 274. See importance of, 11, 293–294
alsoReversals Monsanto, 48–49
Market trends, 9, 68. SeeDowntrends; Monthly charts, 60, 178, 183, 185, 188
Uptrends Monthly pivot points, 141, 145,
Market value, 15, 48 150–151, 153, 156
Market weakness, 263, 301 Morning doji star, 97, 184, 192, 197,
Markowitz, Harry, 12 215, 233
Marvell, 44 Morning star pattern, 196
Maxim Integrated Products, 44 Morris, Greg, 188
Mean, 88, 161 Motorola, 44
Mental stops, 262 Moving average
Mercedes Benz, 61 characteristics of, 75, 88–90, 104,
Microsoft, Inc., 20–21 122, 142, 145, 183, 276, 301, 314
Microsoft Excel, 161, 231 forex market, 216–217
Mindset, importance of, 6, 310, 315 risk management and, 259
Miniaccounts, 63 sample analysis, 280, 286
Mini-Dow, 164–165, 172, 178, 205, 207, simple, 161–166
222, 239, 247–248, 271, 273, 288 trading triggers, 226–227, 236,
Mini-gold contract, 219 239–240, 248, 254
Mini-Russell Stock Index futures, 139 Moving average
Mini-stock index futures, 77, 139 convergence/divergence
Missed opportunities, 123 (MACD), 94, 103–107, 117, 122,
Modernization Act, 64 218, 220, 229, 231, 247, 251, 281,
Momentum 283, 286–288, 294
bullish, 105, 151, 235, 243 Multi-conglomerate corporations, 61
changes in, seeMomentum changes Multiple positions, 220
declining, 231 Murphy, John J., 48, 50
implications of, 95, 104, 107, 217, Mutual funds, 13, 16, 29, 34, 40
231, 248, 271, 273, 282
shift in, 97, 169, 205 Nasdaq, 130, 222
sources of, 97 Nasdaq 100, 16, 34, 285
techniques, 46 National Futures Association, 64
trading, 8 Nationalfutures.com, 178, 180–181,
trends and, 159 185, 204, 231, 242, 291
Momentum changes Natural gas, 52, 57
Apple Computer case illustration, Negative assigned candle, 195, 234, 280
113–114 Negative crosses, 217

bindex.qxd 10/11/06 11:35 AM Page 348
348 INDEX
Negative momentum, 236 Pairs trading, 18, 46, 63
Net asset value (NAV), 34 Partial positions, 272, 308
Neutral market, 82, 89, 169, 254 Pattern recognition, 188
Neutral trend, 79–80 PayPal, 63
News events, economic impact of, 132, Pennants, 81. SeealsoFlag formations
248, 301, 306 Pension plans, 148
Newmont Mining, 42–43 Percentage in points (PIP), 64, 66, 203,
Newton’s law, 192 215, 232, 236, 261, 264, 301
NewTradingSystemsandMethods Personality profile, 16
(Kaufman), 181 Pharmaceutical HOLDRs, 46
New York Bank settlement, 290 PIP spread, 64, 66
New York Board of Trade, 66–67 Pivot point
New York Mercantile Exchange analysis, seePivot point analysis
(NYMEX), 48, 291 defined, 124
New York Stock Exchange (NYSE), entry and exit strategies, 277–278
37–38 integration of, 275–276
Nickel, 52 setups and triggers, 242–245
Noncommercial forex trades, 71, 72 Pivot point analysis
Novice traders, 14 applications of, 1
benefits of, 179
OIH, 38–39 calculations, 182
Online trading, active, 204 candle patterns combined with,
OOPS method, 214 137–140
Open, candle formations, 189–190 characteristics of, 3, 13, 35, 46, 60,
Open Close, 183 75, 88–89, 93–94, 96–97,
Open-ended mutual funds, 42 121–122, 188
Open hammer candle pattern, 225 confluence, 141
Open of market, 14, 78, 93, 184 defined, 124, 126
Options, 3, 13, 15–17, 23, 42, 48, 119, filtering, 169, 313
149, 308–309 getting started, 177–185
Orange juice, 52–55, 57 information overload, 131–140
Order-entry platforms, forex markets, leading indicator, 124–127
64 long-term, 214, 236
Out-of-the-money call options, 23 mathematical calculations, 123
Overbought condition/overbought moving average system, 159–185
market, 55, 89, 91, 95, 103, prices near pivot area, 128–129
112–113, 118–119, 169, 183, 254 purpose of, 182–183
Overleveraged investments, 48 range, 129–130
Overpriced stock, 43 sample, 285–288
Over-the-counter (OTC) foreign stock investments, 241
exchange, 18, 65 support and resistance, 105,
Oversold condition/market, 90–91, 103, 121–125, 127–129, 182–183, 248
118–119, 126, 183, 254, 308 time frame analysis, multiple,
Overtrading, 175 129–131
Overvalued condition, 89 trading triggers, 229, 254–255
Overvalued stock, 43 Pivot Point Calculator, 231, 242, 312

bindex.qxd 10/11/06 11:35 AM Page 349
Index 349
Political events, economic impact of, Random Walk theory, 5–6, 81
1–2, 61, 72, 74, 153 Range, 130, 132
Position Rate of return, 36
balancing, 75 Real estate investments, 12
number of, 11 Real estate investment trusts (REITs)
size of, 9, 308 characteristics of, 13
Position traders/trading, 15, 17, 34, ETF, 35
103, 165, 281, 285 Real-time trading volume, 193
Positive assigned candle, 195, 246–247, RealTick, 103, 231
280 Recession, 2
Power traders, 130 Red candles, 190
Precious metals, 12, 42 Red Hat, Inc., 20–21
Predictive indicators, 242–245 REFCO, 17–18
Pregame setup, 254 Regression to the mean, 88
Price Regular stop, 247
appreciation, 148, 159, 163 Rejection
corrections, 43 of price, 68
gaps, seePrice gaps of support and resistance level, 183
momentum, 44 Relative strength, 189
reversal, 100, 107, 142, 148, 157 RemarkableStoryofRisk,The
Price gaps (Bernstein), 12
filling in, 89–91 ReminiscencesofaStockOperator
sources of, 88, 290 (Lefevre), 6
Price, Richard, 210 Research, importance of, 23–24
Price-to-earnings (P/E) ratio, 24, 28 Resistance level, pivot point analysis,
Private investors, 8, 40 174–175. SeealsoPivot point
Profitability, 30 analysis, support and resistance
Profitable traders, 14 Resistance line, 82, 84
Profit margin, 21, 43 Retracement, 132, 157
Profit objectives, 16, 97, 156 Reuters/Jeffries CRB (Commodity
Profit-taking, 146, 265 Research Bureau), 52, 57
Profit target, identification of, 169, 263 Reversals, 61, 68–69, 80, 85, 87, 94, 100,
Proprietary setups, 254 106, 119–120, 126, 142–143,
Protective buy stop, 261 148–149, 154, 157, 159, 163–164,
Pullbacks, 88, 132 173, 183–184, 187, 190–191,
Put options, 16, 119, 149 195–196, 202, 215, 233, 251,
272–274, 300, 309
QQQs, 34, 285 Rickshaw doji, 148, 192
Quotes, 64 Rising wedges, 81
Risk aversion, 58
R-1 level, trading triggers, 139, 148, Risk capital, 10
182, 223, 225, 231, 276 Risk management
R-2 level, trading triggers, 139–140, importance of, 6, 11–12, 24, 32, 51,
149, 178, 183, 241 85, 184, 255, 301
R-3 level, trading triggers, 236 intraday, 303
Rambus, Inc., 20–21 stop-loss system, 257

bindex.qxd 10/11/06 11:35 AM Page 350
350 INDEX
Risk management (continued) Shooting star formation, 55, 109, 150,
stop orders, 258–267 169, 171–172, 191, 195, 203–204,
trading rules, 257–258 239, 260, 263
Risk per trade, 11 Short position, 63, 71, 102, 150,
Risk/reward analysis, 22–23, 29, 154, 167–168, 214, 261
263, 285, 294, 310 Short sales, 14, 24–25, 38, 60–63,
Risk tolerance, 16 231–232, 236–237, 240, 243, 249,
Robustness, 98 265
Rollover fees, 66 Short-term period, 88
Rollover process, forex markets, 64 Short-term traders/trading, 7, 29, 103,
Rule-based approach, importance of, 169, 234
6–7 Sideways market, 79–80, 82, 86, 164,
Russell 2000, 16, 222, 248 169, 171, 177, 232, 239, 246, 255,
Russell contracts, 130 264
Signals, seeBuy signals; Sell signals
S-1 level, trading triggers, 139, 143, acting on, 101
182 frequency of, 99
S-2 level, 143, 178, 183, 232, 285, 313 reliability of, 98
Scale-out position, 232–234, 250 short-term, 103
Scale-up program, 292 strength of, 102
Scaling out, 273–275, 277, 311 Silver, 33, 52
Scared money, 314 Simple moving average, 90, 161–166
Search and destroy stop-loss order, Simulated trading, 314–316
246 Sixty-minute charts, 185
Seasonal markets, 301 Sixty-minute time periods, 214
Seasonal stock system, 282–283 Size of candle, 190
Secondary signals, 153 Slippage, 292
Secondary stochastics, 102–103 Slope, 162–164, 168, 171
Sector cycles, 21–22 Slow stochastics, 99
Sector leaders, 30 Small investors, 7, 63
Sector trading, 18–19, 36–37 Smitten, Richard, 6
Securities and Exchange Commission Soros, George, 61
(SEC), 24, 29 Soybean market, 48–50, 52
Select stock account, 29 Speculation, 4, 10, 24, 29, 56, 61, 129,
Selling opportunities, 151 148
Selling pressure, 120, 236 Spike pattern, 261
Sell-offs, 61, 146, 148, 155, 246 Spot currency rate, 64
Sell signals, 46, 88, 90–91, 97, 99, Spot euro currency, 90, 107
102–103, 107, 137, 174, 178, 216, Spot foreign exchange (forex)
230–231, 237, 247, 275, 280, characteristics of, 16, 64–65, 70–71,
288 94, 132, 140, 143, 147–148, 162,
Sell trigger, 101–102 166, 175, 207
Semiconductors sector, 36 euro, 90, 107
Seminars, 205 Japanese yen, 172
Separating lines, 193 sample analysis, 288
Settlement price, 95, 129–130, 160 triggers, 216–219, 241–242
Shadows, 183, 190, 194–195 Spot reversals, 55

bindex.qxd 10/11/06 11:35 AM Page 351
Index 351
Spreadsheet applications, 161, 231 strategies for, 22–23
Spreads trading triggers, 225–229, 241–242, 252
characteristics of, 23–29, 46, 58, 64 Stop close-only (SCO), 10, 185, 231,
foreign exchange market, 18 244, 262–266
Standard & Poor’s (S&P) 500 Stock Stop level, 250
Index, 16, 34, 65, 104, 127, 222 Stop-loss orders, 6, 17, 23, 60, 246, 294
Standard & Poor’s Depositary Receipts Stop-loss system, 257
(SPDRs), 34, 285 Stop orders, 10, 203, 216, 234
Standard deviation, 5, 260 streetTRACKS Gold ETF (GLD),
Starbucks, 28, 117 40–41, 47
Star formations, 205, 210 Successful traders, characteristics of,
Starting a business, 7–8 6–9, 17, 32, 79–80, 176, 217, 307,
Statistical analysis, 293–294 310
Steady trending, 171 Sugar, 52, 55–57
STMicroelectcronics NV, 44 Supply and demand, 15, 57–58, 190
Stochastics Support and resistance
applications of, 183 candle formations, 190, 193, 201
benefits of, 94 candlestick charting, 188
characteristics of, 94–96, 189, 227 confluence, 157
convergence, 185 entry and exit strategies, 276–277
fast, 99 forecasting, 185
forex market, 218 implications of, 6, 46, 75, 151–152,
patterns, 100–101 154–155, 316
slow, 99 pivot point analysis, 121–125,
trading rules, 96–97, 102–103 127–131, 139, 143–144, 161, 178,
trading triggers, 229, 247, 251 182–184, 203, 215, 222, 228, 248,
Stock index, 14 255
Stock index future, 16 sample analysis, 283, 286
Stock investments trading triggers, 219, 233, 248–249
characteristics of, 12, 14, 16 Support level, 82, 86, 96, 160
commodities and, 53, 58 Swing traders/swing trading, 10, 16–17,
core position, 16 34, 75, 77, 94, 103, 165, 177, 240
forex trading compared with, 65–66 Swiss franc (CHF), 64, 210
trading volume, 78
Stock market crashes, 3, 21 Tails, 190
Stock ownership, 42 Tandem markets, 177
Stock selection, 22–24, 42–43, 46, 48 Tandem trading, 50–53
StockTrader’sAlmanac Tangent trends, 169
(Hirsch/Hirsch), 282–283, 286, Target exit, 97
294 Target Key, 134
Stock trading Taxation
company analysis, 28 capital gains, 34
disadvantages of, 19–21 home office deductions, 7
long-term investments, 28–31 mutual funds, 34
pivot point analysis, 121–122 Technical analysis, 4–5, 24, 58, 60, 63,
risk/reward analysis, 22–23, 29 65–66, 75, 77–78, 93, 122, 127,
spread trading tips, 24–29 146, 161, 184, 188

bindex.qxd 10/11/06 11:35 AM Page 352
352 INDEX
Technical indicators, 1, 24, 93 Trading system/trading plan
Technician, defined, 4 accuracy of, 290
Technology Analog Devices, 44 back-testing, 290
Technology sector, 36 benefits of, 282
Telecom sector, 36 best time to trade, 295–299
10–day moving average, 161 consistency in, 312–313
Texas Instruments, 44 diversification, 12–16, 151, 155
Thirty-minute charts, 185 importance of, 254, 311–312
Three crows formation, 193 investment vehicles, 16–18
Three-period moving averages, 183 questions to ask, 9–11
Three-period pivot point, 169–171, personal, 214
173–175 personal toolbox, 255
Three river formations, 193 risk management, 11–12
Three white candles, 200 risk per trade, 11
Time frames, 161, 185, 242. Seealso rule-based approach, 5–6
Time period sample analysis, 279–306
Time horizon, 60 testing, 254
Time period, 15, 188–189, 207, 214, 307 trading as a business, 7–8
Toll Brothers, 35, 241 validity determination, 291–293,
Tomorrow/next (Tom/Next), 64 303
Top patterns, 77, 99, 114, 136, 138, Trading triggers, 13–15, 17, 67, 117,
145–158, 171, 184, 187, 193, 197, 122, 153, 178, 185, 216. See
201, 205, 230, 233, 241 alsospecifictypesoftrades
Towers formation, 193 Trading Triggers University, 169, 311
TradeLikeJesseLivermore(Smitten), Trading tuition, 66
6, 10, 123 Trading volume, seeVolume
Trade trigger strategy, 166–168 Trailing stop, 263, 266, 274–277, 303
Trading account Transaction charges, 66
characteristics of, 6, 8 Transparency, 37
forex market, 63 Treasuries
size of, 293 influential factors, 3, 30
Trading diary, 311 short-term, 2
Trading equity, 11 Treasury bonds (T-bonds), 30, 144, 288
Trading opportunities, identification Trend(s), seespecifictypesoftrends
of, 9, 22 analysis, 68–69, 75, 79, 82–84, 174
Trading plan, seeTrading determination of direction, 160
system/trading plan, 151, 255 functions of, 159
Trading range, 127, 194 lines, 75, 82–84, 188
Trading rules, 144, 230–231, 235, reversals, 68–69, 80, 86, 106, 119,
246–250, 254, 257–258, 266, 310, 164, 173, 190, 243, 300
313, 316 strength of, 78
Trading signals, seeBuy signals; Sell types of, 79–80
signals Trending markets, 85
interpretation of, 12, 14 Trend Traders technical price break,
significance of, 309 55
Trading software packages, 215 Triangles, ascending, 81
Trading style, 15, 143, 176–177 Triennial Central Bank Survey, 210

bindex.qxd 10/11/06 11:35 AM Page 353
Index 353
Turnarounds, 100, 106, 158 Volume
Tweezer bottoms/tops, 201 analysis, 67–68
24–hour markets, 273–274 candle formations, 194
200–day moving average, 88, 160 impact of, 14, 30, 61, 65, 75, 78, 94,
112–113, 114–116, 119, 121, 169,
Underlying stock, 23 193, 210, 230, 247, 281
Unemployment rate, 3, 73, 301
United Airlines, 19 Wal-Mart, 29–30
U.S. Department of Agriculture War, economic impact of, 2
(USDA), 55–56 Warning signals, 172
U.S. dollar Weather conditions, market impact of,
implications of, 2, 18, 47, 51, 72, 74, 53–55, 57
143, 210, 276 Wedges, rising, 81
market rallies, 153 Weekly charts, 60, 178, 183, 185, 188
spot forex, 148 Weekly pivot points, 141, 145, 150–151,
spread, 64 153, 156
strength of, 61–62 Wheat, 52
United States Oil Fund (USO), 40, 47 Whipsaw, 94, 163
U.S. Real Estate Trust (IYR), 35 White candle, 169, 172, 189, 196,
U.S. trading session, opening of, 74 198–200, 201, 233, 241
Unleaded gasoline, 52 Wicks, 190
Unleaded gasoline, 52 Williams, Larry, 123, 214
Uptick rule, 24–25, 34 Winning trades, 205, 214, 266, 290
Uptrends, 69, 79–81, 85, 87–88, 90, 93, WorldCom, 19, 28
95, 132, 162, 164, 166–167, 177, Wraps, 199
189–190, 192, 194, 243, 255, 262,
283 Yang, 201
USD/CHF, 210 Yield(s)
USD/JPY, 210 curve, 2
influential factors, 51
Valuation, currencies, 72 Yin, 201
Value, perception of, 160, 183
Volatility, 44, 48, 65, 90, 98, 143–145, Zero-line cross, 218, 281
163, 188, 203, 205, 248, 263, 300 Zero-line oscillator, 103–104
Volatility index (VIX), 127 Zhengzhou Commodity Exchange, 58

bindex.qxd 10/11/06 11:35 AM Page 354
For more information regarding the DVD,
see the About the DVD section on page 335.
CUSTOMER NOTE: IF THIS BOOK IS ACCOMPANIED BY
SOFTWARE, PLEASE READ THE FOLLOWING BEFORE
OPENING THE PACKAGE.
This software contains files to help you utilize the models de-
scribed in the accompanying book. By opening the package, you are
agreeing to be bound by the following agreement:
This software product is protected by copyright and all rights are
reserved by the author, John Wiley & Sons, Inc., or their licensors.
You are licensed to use this software on a single computer. Copying
the software to another medium or format for use on a single com-
puter does not violate the U.S. Copyright Law. Copying the software
for any other purpose is a violation of the U.S. Copyright Law.
This software product is sold as is without warranty of any kind,
either express or implied, including but not limited to the implied
warranty of merchantability and fitness for a particular purpose. Nei-
ther Wiley nor its dealers or distributors assumes any liability for any
alleged or actual damages arising from the use of or the inability to
use this software. (Some states do not allow the exclusion of implied
warranties, so the exclusion may not apply to you.)
John Wiley &Sons, Inc.

