CC HH AA RRTT
YYOOUURR WWAAYY TTOO
PP RR OO FF II TT SS
S E C O N D E D I T I O N
The Online Trader’s Guide to
Technical Analysis with ProphetCharts®
TIM KNIGHT
PPRROOFFIITTSS
YYOOUURR
WWAAYY
TTOO
CCHHAARRTT
KNIGHT
with
ProphetCharts
®
to
Technical
Analysis
The
Online
Trader’s
Guide
(continued from front flap) $75.00 USA
$90.00 CAN
No matter what you trade, technical analysis can Technical analysis is the study of past price
Praise for the First Edition of
make you a better and more profi table trader. movement for the purpose of predicting
Price charts will consistently provide the most Chart Your Way to Profi ts future price movement. If done correctly, it can
complete representation of the supply and lead to substantial trading profi ts. But making
demand behind any fi nancial instrument be- money in the market isn’t easy. No one knows
cause everything that can be publicly known this better than author Tim Knight, who has
“As a former pit trader and a technical ‘newbie,’ I have found Tim’s new book to
or speculated is already built into the graph. been charting and trading the fi nancial mar-
be the best resource I’ve seen for the everyday trader. With its fun and informa-
Through the ups and downs of fi nancial markets, kets for more than twenty years. The com-
tive style, it has allowed me to understand and appreciate the professional world
technical criteria and charting allow traders to pany he founded, Prophet Financial Systems
be completely objective in their assessment of technical analysis.” (now owned by TD Ameritrade), was ranked
of price action, while leaving emotion out of —Tom Sosnoff, cofounder and CEO, thinkorswim, Inc. for years as the number-one site for technical
the decision-making process. Chart Your Way to analysis by both Barron’s and Forbes.
Profi ts, Second Edition can help you do the same,
as it shows you how to combine technical
“Tim Knight is a chartist’s chartist—I can’t recommend his work highly enough. In the fi rst edition of Chart Your Way to
analysis with powerful online tools to achieve
Few people have done as much as he has in providing the sort of quality online Profi ts, Knight showed how to use the power-
trading success.
resources technical traders need in order to make money in the fi nancial markets. ful technology available online in conjunction
Chart Your Way to Profi ts is a twenty-fi rst-century blueprint on how to use with technical analysis to analyze markets and
technical tools to achieve trading and investing success.” make the most profi table trading decisions
TIM KNIGHT is a hedge fund money man- possible. Now, in this revised Second Edition,
—David Penn, Editor, Technical Analysis of Stocks and Commodities magazine
ager and the founder of Prophet Financial Sys-
he offers many new technical tools for track-
tems (now owned by TD Ameritrade), rated by ing individual stocks and also shows you how
Forbes magazine and Barron’s as the number-one
to use ProphetCharts® to do advanced inter-
online site for technical analysis. He also writes “Tim has written the best guide to leveraging ProphetCharts and technical analy-
market technical studies to identify the best
the popular blog, slopeofhope.com. Prior to sis in the market today. This is a complex subject and can leave new and old in- opportunities.
starting Prophet.net, he was vice president of vestors buried in too much data or impossible learning curves. Tim breaks these
products for Montgomery Securities, where he complex ideas down into actionable ideas and strategies. I would recommend this
Written in a straightforward and acces-
helped develop PC-based trader workstations book to anyone that wants an education in the latest and best tools and methods
sible manner, Chart Your Way to Profi ts, Second
before the development of Web trading. Knight professional technicians are using today.”
Edition introduces the ProphetCharts® ap-
has traded for over twenty years, primarily
—John Jagerson, Vice President of Content, Investools plication (accessible to anyone with Inter-
using technical analysis and price charts.
author of Profi ting with Forex net access and an account), which allows
you to perform your own analysis with the
help of hundreds of real-world examples.
Jacket Illustration: iStockphoto Along the way, you’ll also become familiar
with some of the most important rules of
sound trading. The author examines a variety
of chart types, highlights essential indicators,
SECOND EDITION
explores numerous analysis methods, and
offers a wealth of in-depth insight and practi-
cal advice throughout the book.
(continued on back flap)

P1:JYS
bind JWBT295-Knight May25,2010 20:55 Printer:Yettocome
520

P1:JYS
FM JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 12:43 Printer:Yettocome
Chart Your
Way to
Profits
The Online Trader’s Guide
to Technical Analysis
with ProphetCharts
Second Edition
TIM KNIGHT
JohnWiley&Sons,Inc.
i

P1:JYS
FM JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 12:43 Printer:Yettocome
ToAlexanderDobrovolski,whomadeitallpossible
Copyright(cid:1)C 2010byTimKnight.Allrightsreserved.
PublishedbyJohnWiley&Sons,Inc.,Hoboken,NewJersey.
PublishedsimultaneouslyinCanada.
Nopartofthispublicationmaybereproduced,storedinaretrievalsystem,ortransmittedin
anyformorbyanymeans,electronic,mechanical,photocopying,recording,scanning,or
otherwise,exceptaspermittedunderSection107or108ofthe1976UnitedStatesCopyright
Act,withouteitherthepriorwrittenpermissionofthePublisher,orauthorizationthrough
paymentoftheappropriateper-copyfeetotheCopyrightClearanceCenter,Inc.,222
RosewoodDrive,Danvers,MA01923,(978)750-8400,fax(978)646-8600,orontheWebat
www.copyright.com.RequeststothePublisherforpermissionshouldbeaddressedtothe
PermissionsDepartment,JohnWiley&Sons,Inc.,111RiverStreet,Hoboken,NJ07030,(201)
748-6011,fax(201)748-6008,oronlineathttp://www.wiley.com/go/permissions.
LimitofLiability/DisclaimerofWarranty:Whilethepublisherandauthorhaveusedtheirbest
effortsinpreparingthisbook,theymakenorepresentationsorwarrantieswithrespecttothe
accuracyorcompletenessofthecontentsofthisbookandspecificallydisclaimanyimplied
warrantiesofmerchantabilityorfitnessforaparticularpurpose.Nowarrantymaybecreated
orextendedbysalesrepresentativesorwrittensalesmaterials.Theadviceandstrategies
containedhereinmaynotbesuitableforyoursituation.Youshouldconsultwitha
professionalwhereappropriate.Neitherthepublishernorauthorshallbeliableforanylossof
profitoranyothercommercialdamages,includingbutnotlimitedtospecial,incidental,
consequential,orotherdamages.
Forgeneralinformationonourotherproductsandservicesorfortechnicalsupport,please
contactourCustomerCareDepartmentwithintheUnitedStatesat(800)762-2974,outsidethe
UnitedStatesat(317)572-3993orfax(317)572-4002.
Wileyalsopublishesitsbooksinavarietyofelectronicformats.Somecontentthatappearsin
printmaynotbeavailableinelectronicbooks.FormoreinformationaboutWileyproducts,
visitourwebsiteatwww.wiley.com.
LibraryofCongressCataloging-in-PublicationData:
Knight,Tim,1966–
Chartyourwaytoprofits:theonlinetrader’sguidetotechnicalanalysiswith
ProphetCharts/TimKnight.–2nded.
p.cm.–(Wileytradingseries)
Includesbibliographicalreferencesandindex.
ISBN978-0-470-62002-1(cloth)
1.Stocks–Charts,diagrams,etc. 2.Investmentanalysis. 3.Electronictrading
ofsecurities. I.Title.
HG4638.K552010
332.63(cid:2)2042–dc22
2010005946
PrintedintheUnitedStatesofAmerica
10 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1
ii

P1:JYS
FM JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 12:43 Printer:Yettocome
Contents
Introduction v
About the Author vii
CHAPTER 1 Technical Analysis 1
CHAPTER 2 Fundamentals of Chart Creation 26
CHAPTER 3 Modules and Preferences 44
CHAPTER 4 Watch Lists and Chart Styles 70
CHAPTER 5 Market and Data Types 83
CHAPTER 6 Indicators in Action 111
CHAPTER 7 Multiple Studies and Comparisons 137
CHAPTER 8 Trendlines and Reversals 164
CHAPTER 9 Expansion and Channels 225
CHAPTER 10 Rounded Tops and Saucers 240
CHAPTER 11 Cup with Handle 271
CHAPTER 12 Multiple Tops and Bottoms 293
CHAPTER 13 Head and Shoulders 318
iii

P1:JYS
FM JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 12:43 Printer:Yettocome
iv CONTENTS
CHAPTER 14 Pattern Recognition 387
CHAPTER 15 Fibonacci Drawings 408
CHAPTER 16 Power Features 446
CHAPTER 17 For Bears Only 466
CHAPTER 18 A Practical Guide to Trading 481
APPENDIX A The Kirk Report Interview 492
APPENDIX B MarketMatrix 507
Index 515

P1:JYS
FM JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 12:43 Printer:Yettocome
Introduction
O
ne of my favorite photographs was taken by my wife on our hon-
eymoon. We were on the second leg of our trip, the first of which
wasinDubrovnik,Croatia(partoftheformerYugoslavia),andthe
secondincentralItaly.Thephotoshowsmeinbed,apparentlyasleep.The
titleofthebookIamholdingacrossmychestisclearlylegible:Technical
AnalysisofStockTrends,byEdwardsandMagee.
Chartingthefinancialmarketshasbeenmypassionforover20years.
TheveryfirsttradeIeverplacedinmylifewasonBlackMonday,thecrash
of1987—hardlyapropitiousstart.Butthemarketsandtheirvagarieshave
fascinatedmeeversince.
In 1992, I took my three main areas of interest—computers, trading,
and business—and combined them to create Prophet Financial Systems.
That was before the commercial Internet even existed (we used dial-up
modems in those days for daily data updates). Over the years, we built
a wide array of tools, all with the purpose of trying to help people make
bettertradingdecisions.
Tobehonest,Ipersonallyfindbooksabouttechnicalanalysiskindof
boring. They arefullof indicators, formulas, tables, andnumbers. Byand
large, they put me to sleep (witness the honeymoon photo). I set out to
make this book different. I wanted you to enjoy learning from this book,
and I wanted to use as many real-life examples as possible. Hypothetical
charts mean little, in my opinion. So you will find this book packed with
hundredsofexamplesdrawnfromrealtradinginU.S.equitymarkets.This
shouldgiveyouapracticalwaytoseehowtoapplytheideaspresentedin
thesepages.
SOME HISTORY
In 1998, we at Prophet took the first small steps toward creating a chart-
ingapplet,whichwecalledJavaCharts.Myphilosophyinproductdevelop-
ment has always been the same: have my engineers create a product that
v

P1:JYS
FM JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 12:43 Printer:Yettocome
vi INTRODUCTION
I love to use. This had the happy side effect of attracting a lot of traders,
becausetheylikedwhattheysaw,too.
JavaCharts became the foundation of the business in many ways. It
wasverypopularonourownwebsite,Prophet.net,andwelicenseditto
awidevarietyofbrokeragesandotherbusinesses.Thequalityandreputa-
tionoftheproductwasanimportantreasonbehindoursecuringthe“Best
oftheWeb”awardsfrombothBarron’sandForbes,beginningin1999and
continuingforyears.
Overanearlyfour-yearperiod—fromthebeginningof2003totheend
of 2006—we focused on our next generation of charting. Originally refer-
ring to this as simply JavaCharts 2, we later christened it ProphetCharts.
Although this book will prove helpful to anyone interested in technical
analysis,itwillbeespeciallyinstructivetoProphetChartsusers.
HOW TO REACH ME
I would love to hear from you! I enjoy being in touch with other people
interested in charting, so feel free to drop me a line with your questions
andcomments.Mye-mailaddressistrader.tim.knight@gmail.com.
You also might enjoy my widely read blog, The Slope of Hope, which
canbeaccessedviayourbrowseratwww.slopeofhope.com.
Whether you use any charting product, you should benefit from this
book. I’ve tried to make it accessible, understandable, and practical for
anyone interested in making better trading decisions. Let me know what
youthink,andgoodluckwithyourtrading!

P1:JYS
FM JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 12:43 Printer:Yettocome
About the Author
T
im Knight was the founder of Prophet Financial Systems, an online
softwarecompanythatwasacquiredbyINVESToolsinJanuary2005,
whichinturnwasacquiredbyAmeritradeinthesummerof2009.He
currentlyisanactivetraderandprofessionalmoneymanager.
Tim founded Prophet in 1992 to provide market data to self-directed
investors using stand-alone technical analysis software. With the ad-
vent of the World Wide Web, he envisioned combining the power of
these expensive software packages with browser-based convenience—
enablingtraderstofocusontheiranalysis,insteadofworryingaboutsoft-
ware upgrades and database issues. His online technical analysis suite at
Prophet.Netdeliveredonthisvision.
In his trading today, Tim relies on technical analysis as the primary
basisforhisinvestmentdecisions.HeisthemanagingpartnerfortheTim
Knight Organization, a money management firm, and writes the popular
SlopeofHopeblog.
BeforestartingProphet,TimwasVicePresidentofTechnologyProd-
ucts at Montgomery Securities in San Francisco, where he led the devel-
opment of an institutional online-trading platform. Additionally, he held
variouspositionsinmarketingmanagementatAppleComputerandisthe
authorof20computerbooks.TimisagraduateofSantaClaraUniversity’s
honorsprogramandholdsabachelor’sdegreeinbusinessmanagement.
HelivesinPaloAlto,California,withhiswife,children,dog,andthree
pamperedchickens.
vii

P1:JYS
FM JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 12:43 Printer:Yettocome
viii

P1:OTA
c01 JWBT295-Knight May3,2010 12:33 Printer:Yettocome
C H A P T E R 1
Technical
Analysis
What It Is and Why It Works
T
echnical analysis is the study of past price movement for the pur-
pose of predicting future price movement, which, if done correctly,
can lead to substantial trading profits. The prices studied are typi-
callythoseoffinancialinstrumentssuchasstocks,commodities,andfor-
eigncurrencies.Butnomatterwhatmarketisbeingstudied,theunderlying
principlesarethesame.Specifically:
(cid:1)
Apricechartisthemostperfectrepresentationofthebalanceofbuy-
ersandsellersforanygivenentity.
(cid:1)
Prices tend to move in trends and patterns, which, based on histori-
calanalysis,canleadtostatisticallymeaningfulprobabilitiesoffuture
pricemovement.
(cid:1)
The close and skilled examination of a price chart can guide traders
as to how long they should remain in a trade and when they should
exit.
No matter what you trade, technical analysis can make you a better
andmoreprofitabletrader.Pricechartswillconsistentlyprovidethemost
truthful picture that can be had of a tradable object, because everything
that can be publicly known or speculated is already built into the graph.
You will never get the same pure representation of a stock (or anything
else) from a broker, a newsletter writer, or an analyst. A chart is as good
asitgets.
1

P1:OTA
c01 JWBT295-Knight May3,2010 12:33 Printer:Yettocome
2 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
THE BULLS VERSUS THE BEARS
Beforewegetintopricecharts—andtherewillbehundredsoftheminthis
book—let’sexaminethebasicsaboutwhatformsapricechartinthefirst
place:sellers(thesupply)andbuyers(thedemand).
When buyers are more powerful than sellers, prices move up. When
sellersaremorepowerfulthanbuyers,pricesmovedown.Thistug-of-war,
inthesesimpleterms,isbehindthetrillionsofdollarsthatgettradedevery
weekoftheyear.
What many people tend to forget is that every time a trade is placed,
eachsidebelievesthattheyarerightandtheothersideofthetransaction
is wrong. When person A buys stock from person B, person A believes
the stock is going to go up in price (meaning B is selling too cheap), and
personBbelieveshewouldratherhavethecashthanthestock(meaning
Aisbuyinganovervalued,oratleastfullyvalued,stock).
Asagroup,theindividualswhobelieveagiveninstrumentisgoingto
move higher in price are the bulls, whereas the opposing camp, believing
prices for the same instrument will drop, are the bears. And the war be-
tween the bulls and the bears, fought over many thousands of different
stocks, options, and commodities every day, is what creates price move-
ment. Analyzing that movement well is what will give you a substantial
edgeinthemarketsyoutrade.
WHY IS A PREDICTION VALUABLE?
The astonishing thing about technical analysis is not only how far out
its predictive power goes but also how, even with a future full of un-
knowns,itstillseemsabletoseeitswaycleartomakeameaningfulpredic-
tion. A staggering number of great forces can wreak havoc with financial
markets—scandals, war, governmental chaos, interest rates, terrorist at-
tacks, earnings surprises, the social climate, and so forth. Through it all,
theknowledgeablechartistcanseewhatotherscannotseeandknowwhat
seemsunknowable.
Let’s take a real-life example with a very long time span: the Dow
JonesIndustrialAverageoveraperiodofmorethan100years.Figure1.1
has two Fibonacci fans drawn on it. (Don’t worry if you are not familiar
with that term; it will be explained in Chapter 15.) These fans are drawn
from an extreme low to an extreme high. The first is drawn from the low
in 1903 (the “Rich Man’s Panic,” it was called) to the peak of the roar-
ing twenties bull market in 1929. The second is drawn from the depths

P1:OTA
c01 JWBT295-Knight May3,2010 12:33 Printer:Yettocome
TechnicalAnalysis 3
FIGURE 1.1 TheDowJonesIndustrialAveragefrom1900to2005,enhancedwith
twoFibonaccifans.
of the depression in 1932 to the peak of the Internet bubble in January
2000.
Thereareavarietyofastoundingthingstonoteinthischart:
(cid:1)
The point where the two major lines intersect in 1974 predicted the
precisebottomofthemassive1973–1974bearmarket.
(cid:1)
Thesteadyclimbfrom1990to1995wasperfectlybounded bytwoof
thefanlines.
(cid:1)
Mostimpressiveofall,theultimatemarkettopin2000wasestablished
bythefirstfan(which,remember,began97yearsbefore).
Figure 1.2 is a close-up view of late 1999 and early 2000; as you
can see, the almost century-old fan line creates impressive resistance
to these prices moving higher on four different occasions. If we owned
stocks at that time, this would be a vital warning signal that the top was
established.
This is an extreme example, but the point is that being able to gain
insightintothemostlikelyfutureofaparticularpriceisavehicleforreal
tradingprofits.Itisanedgethatthosenotusingchartswilllack.

P1:OTA
c01 JWBT295-Knight May3,2010 12:33 Printer:Yettocome
4 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
FIGURE 1.2 Highlighted here are four instances that the Dow bounced off the
fanlineestablishedoveracenturyearlier.
A WORD ON SHORTING
There will be many times inthis book where we will refer to“shorting” a
particular stock or “being short” a stock. It is valuable to understand this
terminology,incaseyoudonotalready.
Most people participating in a market are “long” the market; that is,
theyownthesecuritywiththehopethatthepricewillgoup.Soifaperson
owns1,000sharesofAppleComputer(AAPL)whichheboughtat$50per
share,andlatersellsitfor$90pershare,hehasmade$40,000basedonthe
longposition($40persharegaintimes1,000shares).
A person who is short a security has done things backwards: he first
sellsasecurityhedoesnotownforacertainpricewiththehopethatthe
pricewillgodown.Thereasonpeopleareabletosellstocktheydonotown
(essentially giving them a negative number of shares) is that their broker
hassomuchofthestockalreadythatitisavailabletosellwiththepromise
that,atsomepoint,itwillberepurchasedtoreplacethesharesthatwere
sold.
TakingtheexampleofAppleagain,anindividualmightsellshort1,000
sharesofAppleat$90pershare.Ifthestockfellto$50andthetrader“cov-
ered” the position (that is, bought 1,000 shares of the stock, thus making

P1:OTA
c01 JWBT295-Knight May3,2010 12:33 Printer:Yettocome
TechnicalAnalysis 5
thebrokerwhole),hewouldhavemade$40,000justastheothertraderdid,
onlyhewouldhavedoneitintheotherdirection.
The advantages and disadvantages of shorting markets will be dis-
cussed near the end of the book, but the principal benefit of shorting is
that you can take advantage of a falling market as well as a rising one. If
youareatthebeginningofabearmarket,andyoucanonlybuystocks,it
willbeverydifficulttomakemoney.Ifyouareabletoshortstocksathigh
pricesandthenbuythembacklateratlowprices,youcanmakemoneyin
eitheranupordownmarket.
The key disadvantage to shorting stocks is that all the big money is
madebygoinglong.Themostyoucanevermakewithashortpositionis
100 percent (that is, if the stock goes to $0.00, which almost never hap-
pens), whereas the most you can make with a long position is unlimited.
Youcandefinitelymakeprofitsshortingmarkets,butunlessyouareabril-
liantoptionstrader,youwillnevergetrichbeingabear(thatis,aperson
bettingonamarketgoingdown).
SUPPORT AND RESISTANCE
Theworldoftechnicalanalysiscanseemoverwhelmingtomany.Thereare
hundredsofcomplexmathematicalindicators,studies,patterns,andrules.
But there is absolutely no reason good charting has to be complicated. A
tradercansetasideallofthecomplexityandfocusonsomesolidbasics,
startingwiththeideasofsupportandresistance.
Toillustratethis,thinkbacktothechildren’sgameRedRover.Incase
youdon’trememberit,kidssplitupintotwogroups,andeachgroupforms
alinebyholdinghandssothattherearetwoparallellinesofkidsstanding
acrossafieldoppositeoneanother.Thenoneteamcallsout,“RedRover,
Red Rover, send Ethan (or some other kid’s name) right over!” and the
namedchildrushesheadlongintotheotherline,tryingtobreakthrough.If
hebuststhroughtheline,hegetstochooseapersontojoinhisteam.
This image of “breaking through” is exactly what support and resis-
tance are all about, because in the grown-up world of trading, buyers of
securitiestendtomassatcertainpricelevels.Andthoseownerswillhold
thelineatthosepricesifthesecuritytriestogoabove(inthecaseofresis-
tance)orbelow(inthecaseofsupport).
Let’stakeasimplehypotheticalexample.Supposeagivenstocktraded
at between $4.95 and $5.05 for many months. Day after day, week after
week,itstayedinthisrange,accumulatingownersofthestockataround
the$5level.Let’sgoontoassumethecompanyhassomegoodnews,and
thestockgoesupto$6,butsubsequentprofittakingpushesthestockback
downagain.

P1:OTA
c01 JWBT295-Knight May3,2010 12:33 Printer:Yettocome
6 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
Given this circumstance, you can rest assured that it’s unlikely the
stockisgoingtodropbeneathaboutthe$5level.Thereasonisthatthere’s
a huge number of owners at that level, and they are simply not going to
sell.Fearandgreedaretheprimarydriversofthemarket,andinthiscase,
greedisgoingtocomefirst(meaningtheownersaretellingthemarket“I
refusetosellmystockatthispriceforabreakeventrade.Iwantaprofit”).
If something remarkable happens and it shoves the stock down to, say,
$4.50, the fear starts to take hold (“I am worried my losses will get even
worse,soI’mgoingtosellnowwhileIstillhavethechance”),whichmeans
thesellingwillfeedonitself.
Expressedineconomicterms,thestockpricefoundequilibriumatthe
$5 level, thus amassing a large number of owners. If the stock price chal-
lenges that level again, equilibrium will once more take hold, stabilizing
theprice.Thepeopleowningstockatthislevelconstituteresistance—the
“Red Rover” line will hold fast, unless a very powerful force punches
throughit.
Support, therefore, is a price level above which prices are prone to
stay. Resistance is a price level below which prices are prone to stay. So
these are reliablelevels at which tocount on apause in pricemovement,
unlessthelevelsareviolated,whichiswheretherealactionis.
WHAT HAPPENS WHEN PRICES
PUNCH THROUGH?
One time when outsize profits can be made is when prices push through
supportorresistanceandbreakout.Thelongerapricehasbeentryingto
push through a certain price level, the more forceful it will be if it finally
does make it through. (Think back to our Red Rover game, and picture a
particularlyeageryoungsterwhohastried10timestogetthroughtheline
andismoredeterminedthanevertodoso.)
Figure1.3isanexampleofhowpotentthisis.Thefirsthalfofthestock
chartforALVRshowspricesbouncingbetweenabout$2.00and$2.50.For
month after month, the stock was completely stagnant, and buyers were
accumulatingattheselevels.Therewereseveralattemptstopushthrough
resistance(representedbythehorizontalline),buttheyfailed...untilthe
midpointofthegraph,inApril.
At that point, three important things happened: (1) buyers overcame
sellers, pushing prices above resistance; (2) volume increased as excite-
ment began to build around the stock; and (3) when some profit taking
tookplace,priceseasedback,buttheydidnotgobeneaththeformerline
of resistance. From that point, the stock moved up about 500 percent in
thecourseofayear.

P1:OTA
c01 JWBT295-Knight May3,2010 12:33 Printer:Yettocome
TechnicalAnalysis 7
FIGURE 1.3 Afterbreakingoutofasaucerpattern,ALVRblastedaheadonmuch
biggervolumetoa500percentgaininaboutayear.
The concept of how resistance can change into support (and vice
versa) is critical to your understanding of reading a chart. Any sort of
line—be it a trend line, a channel, a horizontal line—has two faces to it:
support and resistance. Once prices cross a line, the nature of that line
changes.Asyouwilllearnlaterinthisbook,ifapricecrossesalinemore
thanonce,thelinebecomesmeaninglessandshouldprobablybedeleted.
Let’stakeanotherlookatresistancetoseehowvaluableitistohavean
awarenessofpricebehavioratcertainlevels.Figure1.4showsthechartfor
ChesapeakeEnergy(symbolCHK)overaperiodofabouthalfayear.Early
on, the price was blasting skyward to a new high, then it slumped down
throughAugust.Itthenregaineditsfootingandmountedanewassaulton
higher prices, but it was repelled again at about the same level. A couple
of months later, in November, a third attempt was made to push past the
$34 barrier, but it failed a third time. You can imagine the frustration and
exasperation of the owners of this stock as they kept seeing their stock
gettingshovedawayfromhigherprices.
Whatthemarketwastellingtheownersofthisstockwas:“Thepriceis
probablynotgoingtogoanyhigher.”Thesupplyofstock(thosesellingit)
represented what is known as overhead resistance. Perhaps some people
whoboughtearlierat$34promisedthemselvesthatthemomentthestock
recovered to a breakeven level, they would get out. Perhaps most people

P1:OTA
c01 JWBT295-Knight May3,2010 12:33 Printer:Yettocome
8 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
FIGURE 1.4 Thisisknownasatripletop,whereanewhighhappensthreetimes,
but the price can’t get above it. Once the attempts at overcoming this resistance
failed,thestockcollapsed.
feltthestockwasfullyvaluedat$34.Thereasonsreallydon’tmatter;the
fact is that over a six-month period, there was an invisible line drawn on
thestockchartthroughwhichpricessimplycouldnotpass.
Whathappenedafterwardsisveryinteresting:farfrompushingabove
the $34 price, the stock instead started collapsing. As Figure 1.5 shows,
CHKwitheredawayfrom$34persharetoabout50cents,almosta99per-
cent decline. Clearly the stock had worse problems than a triple top, but
the important point here is that the market was telling the owners of the
stocksomething,andthetripletopwasawarningthatthiswasastockto
sell,notkeep.
HISTORY REPEATS ITSELF
Anothertenetoftechnicalanalysisisthathumanbehaviordoesn’tchange,
and therefore price behavior doesn’t change. If a certain pattern is pre-
dictablenow,itwillbejustaspredictable10yearsfromnow.
AnexcellentillustrationofthisonasinglechartisFigure1.6.Thestock
shown here is Red Hat (symbol RHAT) over a four-year period. For all of

P1:OTA
c01 JWBT295-Knight May3,2010 12:33 Printer:Yettocome
TechnicalAnalysis 9
FIGURE 1.5 After its triple top, CHK went on to a nearly 99 percent decline in
price.
FIGURE 1.6 Patternscan—andoftendo—repeatthemselvesinthesamechart.

P1:OTA
c01 JWBT295-Knight May3,2010 12:33 Printer:Yettocome
10 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
2002andmostof2003,RHATwasformingaratherlargecupwithhandle
pattern,indicatedbythehorizontalline.Whenitbrokeabovethispattern,
thestockjustabouttripledinprice.
After it peaked, RHAT sank for about a year before establishing an-
other pattern. This time, the pattern was quite similar, only smaller. And
once again, after it broke above the pattern, the stock soared (this time
onlydoubleitsbreakoutprice,whichistypicalofasmallerpattern).
As you can see, once you train your eyes to find patterns and under-
standwhattheimportantpricepointsare,youcantakeadvantageofwhat
arerelativelypredictablepricemovements.
Avarietyoffactorsdictatethepowerofabreakout fromaparticular
pattern. One is the pattern itself, because some patterns are simply more
potent and reliable than others. Another is the volume accompanying the
price movement; a stock moving higher on stronger and stronger volume
is far more attractive than a stock moving the same direction on anemic
volume.Anotherfactorstillisthelengthofthepattern.Abreakoutfroma
three-year-oldsaucerisgoingtohavealotmorefireworksthanabreakout
fromatinytwo-weeksaucer.
Figure 1.7 provides an illustration of both (a) repetition and (b) pat-
tern size equaling potency. The chart is the Russell 2000. The symbol
is $RUT. This chart is actually showing several patterns within a larger
FIGURE 1.7 Anascendingwedgeand,withinthatpattern,threenearlyidentical
patternsindicatedbythehorizontallines.

P1:OTA
c01 JWBT295-Knight May3,2010 12:33 Printer:Yettocome
TechnicalAnalysis 11
pattern. The broad pattern, shown by the two almost parallel lines, is an
ascending wedge. This index is making a series of higher highs (bumping
upagainsttheupperline)andhigherlows(bouncingoffthelowerline).So
theindexisinageneraluptrend.
Withinthispattern,though,arethreesmallerpatterns,allofwhichare
progressively smaller versions of the first. If you look at the shape of the
prices beneath the horizontal line, you can see that this price movement
is virtually identical in all three instances, although the second pattern is
smallerthatthefirst,andthethirdpatternissmallerstill.
What’s interesting, of course, is what happens after the prices break
above each horizontal line—the stock moves higher. But notonly can we
seethestockmovinghigher,wecanalsoobservethattheamountitgoesup
isalittlelesseachtime.Thisisanexampleofhowtheoomphofthepush
upwardiscloselyrelatedtohowsizablethepatternisinthefirstplace.
HEAD AND SHOULDERS
Throughoutthisbook,we’llbelearningaboutavarietyofpatterns,anum-
berofwhichareknownasreversalpatterns.Theyarecalledthisbecause
theyforecastareversalinpricedirection.
Oneofthemostbasicandpowerfulreversalpatternsiscalledthehead
andshoulders.Theseformationsareprettyeasytospot:ontheleftsideis
a hump in prices (gradually moving up and then moving down again to
a certain supporting price). In the middle is a taller hump, again, slowly
movingupandthendownagaintosupport;thisisthehead.Finally,there
is another hump, the smallest of the three (ideally), which is the right
shoulder.
The support line is what’s key here. It even has a special name in the
contextofthispattern;insteadofbeingcalledthesupportline,it’scalled
theneckline.Ifpricesbreakbeneaththeneckline,therearethreegeneral
possibilities:
1. Thepriceswillsinkfromthere.
2. Priceswillsinkbriefly,recovertotouchtheundersideofwhatusedto
besupport(nowresistance),andthenstarttofall.
3. Prices will stabilize, push back toward the former support line, and
thenovercomeit,thusnegatingthepattern.
Theidealcircumstanceis(2),sinceitallowsapersontocarefullyenter
thepositionataverydesirablepriceandsetastopjustabovetheformer
support line. This is the ideal low risk–high reward scenario. Figure 1.8

P1:OTA
c01 JWBT295-Knight May3,2010 12:33 Printer:Yettocome
12 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
FIGURE 1.8 AfterabreakbeneaththenecklineinNovember,Aribalostvirtually
allofitsvalue.
isan example ofjust thiscircumstance, withAriba(symbol ARBA) form-
ing a very nice head and shoulders pattern from July through November.
Once prices broke beneath the neckline, the stock went from about $600
to$300.ButforthefirstcoupleofweeksofDecember,buyerspushedthe
stockbacktoabout$550,stillbelowtheneckline.(Note:thesepricesare
adjustedforreversestocksplits.)
This is a test of the pattern. The pattern has already established it-
self, and the chart is bearish, but buyers are still trying to push the stock
higher. You can almost picture the bulls and bears in a tug-of-war, with
the neckline in the middle of the battle. In this case, shorting the stock
at $550 would have been brilliant, because after testing the pattern, the
pricestartedtosinkvirtuallywithoutpauseuntilalmostalltheequitywas
wipedout.
TakealookatFigure1.9,whichisaverysimilarchart.Broadcom(sym-
bolBRCM)managedtosurvivetheinitialburstoftheNASDAQbubblein
thefirsthalfof2000.ByOctoberofthatyear,itbrokebeneaththeneckline
in a very well-formed head and shoulders pattern, and it didn’t stop once
to test that level again. The stock plummeted from $130 to under $10 per
shareinacoupleofyears.

P1:OTA
c01 JWBT295-Knight May3,2010 12:33 Printer:Yettocome
TechnicalAnalysis 13
FIGURE 1.9 Broadcom,oneofthehotteststocksoftheInternetbubble,collapsed
afteraheadandshoulderspatterninlate2000.
A BREAKOUT AND A FAILURE
Stockpatternsareeverybitaspowerfulontheupsideasonthedownside.
Whenlookingforbullishpatterns,youneedtobeonthelookoutforbreaks
above resistance, as opposed to breakdowns beneath support (as is the
casewithbearishpatterns).
One such bullish breakout is shown in Figure 1.10, where a cup with
handle pattern had been forming over the course of a year. At the mid-
point of the chart, notice two important things happen simultaneously:
(1) the price suddenly bursts well above the resistance line (drawn here
forclarity),and(2)thevolumeinthestockincreasessubstantially(asyou
canseefromthevolumegraphlocatedinthelowerpane).Together,there
is no more powerful positive statement about a stock’s bullish direction,
andthisstockkeptclimbingbyhundredsofpercentafterward.Asyouwill
learnthroughoutthisbook,volumeisalmostasimportantaspricemove-
ment,particularlywithrespecttobullishformations,whichrequirealotof
volumetofueltherise.
Asyougainexperienceinrecognizingchartpatternsandanticipating
themovesthatstockscanmakeafteracertainpatternisfulfilled,youmay

P1:OTA
c01 JWBT295-Knight May3,2010 12:33 Printer:Yettocome
14 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
FIGURE 1.10 A price breakout with accompanying high volume is an excellent
predictoroffutureupwardmovement.
betemptedtomentallydrawinacompletepatternwhereonehasn’tfully
formedyet.Forexample,ifyouseeashoulder,ahead,andpartofashoul-
der,youmightconcludethatthisisgoingtocompleteasaheadandshoul-
derspattern,andyoumightaswellgetinnowandenjoytheextraprofits
that exist between the current price and the neckline. Or you might see
a saucer formation that is getting very close to breaking out, and you fig-
ure you might as well get a better price on the stock by not waiting for
thebreakout,sincesometimesbreakoutscanrapidlypushthestockupto
muchriskierlevels.
It’s important not to fall into this trap. Not all patterns that complete
themselvesperformastheyaresupposedtoperform,andthechancesfor
successareevenlowerifthepatterndoesn’treallyfinishforming.It’scrit-
icallyimportantthatyouwaitforapatterntocompleteinsteadoftrading
offemergingpatterns.
AgoodexampleofthisisshowninFigure1.11.Thisstockwasform-
ingaveryniceinvertedheadandshoulderspatternfornearlyayear.The
horizontal line indicates the neckline, which, had prices pushed above it,
wouldhavebeenanimportantmeasuringtoolforthepattern.
However,aboutthree-quartersofthewayacrossthechart,youcansee
thatthepricestalledatabout$25andcouldnotgathertheenergytomakea
runfortheneckline.Instead,thepricestartedsinking,madeaflimsyeffort

P1:OTA
c01 JWBT295-Knight May3,2010 12:33 Printer:Yettocome
TechnicalAnalysis 15
FIGURE 1.11 Anticipatingabreakoutisalmostalwaysamistake.Theanticipated
breakout,shownbythe horizontalline,never happened,andafterwardsthestock
witheredaway.
torecover,andthenstartedsinkinghard.Hadyouboughtat$25,contem-
platingabigbreakouttomuchhigherprices,youmighthaveheldontothe
stockasitsankintothesingledigits.Therearecountlessexamplesofthis
kindofevent,andyoumustalwaysremembertohavethepatiencetowait
forthepatterntocomplete.
A CHANGE IN DIRECTION
Most people have heard the maxim “The trend is your friend.” One might
supplementthatbysaying,“Thetrendisyourfriend,buteverytrendsome-
dayends.”Technicalanalysisisameansbywhichyoucanjudgethattrend
change.
Manyembellishmentsyoucanputonachart,suchastrendlinesand
channels,canbeusedtoassesswhenanupward-movingstockisstarting
to head down, or vice versa. Look at Figure 1.12, for example, which is a
20-year-longchartofHarrisCorporation.Forwelloveradecade,thestock
was trending down, making a series of lower highs and lower lows. You
canseethisdowntrendmoreclearlybecauseofthechannellinesthathave
beendrawn.

P1:OTA
c01 JWBT295-Knight May3,2010 12:33 Printer:Yettocome
16 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
FIGURE 1.12 Breakingabovethedescendingchannelpresagedaseachangein
thisstock’sdirection.
Inlate1992,thestockpricefinallygotthestrengthtopushabovethis
channel.Itmighthaveseemedriskytobuythestockatsucha“high”price,
but what the prices were indicating was that the downward channel was
oldnews,andthestockhadanewdirection.Overthecomingyears,itwent
upmanyhundredsofpercentinanuptrendthatwasjustaswelldefinedas
itsdowntrend.
As with most technical studies, this cuts both ways—just as a down-
trendcantransformintoanuptrend,anuptrendcanbebrokenandchange
intoadowntrend.Imaginedrivingdownastraighthighway,andallyouare
abletoseeisthemedianlineintheroad.Aslongasthemedianlineison
the left side of the car, you know you’re generally heading in the correct
direction.Butifthatmedianlinemovesbeneaththecarandtoyourright,
youknowsomethinghasseriouslychanged!
Inasimilarfashion,lookatDiebold’sstockchartforthelate1970sand
early 1980s in Figure 1.13. Year after year, the stock continued to climb,
and it obeyed its ascending trend line, never letting the price go below it.
Thatchangedveryearlyin1984,whenpricesdippedunderthisverywell-
establishedtrendline.
What’sparticularlyfascinatingisthatthistrendlineswitchedcoats,as
trend lines often do when prices violate them, and changed from support
toresistance.Diebold’spricedidn’tfallfaratallbeforeitresumedmoving

P1:OTA
c01 JWBT295-Knight May3,2010 12:33 Printer:Yettocome
TechnicalAnalysis 17
FIGURE 1.13 Hereisoneofcountlessexamplesofsupportchangingintoresis-
tance,asthetrendlinedidnotpermitthepricestogoaboveitonceitwasviolated.
upward.Theaverageobserverwouldbreatheasighofreliefthatthestock
wasgoingupagain.Buttheskilledchartistwouldknowthatthepricewas
pushed up against resistance and, instead of being a solid stock to own,
actually provided a fairly low-risk shorting opportunity. After nearly half
ayearoftryingtopokethroughthetrendlineagain,thepricefinallysuc-
cumbedandlostnearlyhalfitsvalue.
Justbecauseachannelortrendlineisviolatedbypriceactiondoesn’t
guaranteethatatrendchangeisinplace,however.Itsimplysuggeststhe
possibility. Prices crossing a line almost certainly indicate the end of the
priortrendorpattern.Butwhatisbeginningwilltakesometimetoknow
forsure.
Asanillustrationofthis,examinethechartinFigure1.14ofthelarge
insurancecarrierAIG.Thestockwasplainlyinadowntrendfromtheend
of2000totheendof2003,asshownbythedescendingtrendline.Butatthe
very end of 2003, prices pushed through this line with force. This did not
signalaneweraofhigherprices,however.Thestockrallied,sank,rallied
again,andsankagain,andthenralliedoncemore(inaseriesoflowerhighs
and lower lows). Thus, instead of a new uptrend, the stock’s downtrend
wascontinuingatamuchlowerpaceintheshapeofanexpandingwedge.
Importantly,noticehowthepricesobeythesupportofthetrendline,which
had formerly represented resistance and now had changed coats into

P1:OTA
c01 JWBT295-Knight May3,2010 12:33 Printer:Yettocome
18 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
FIGURE 1.14 Thedescendingtrendlineherechangedfromresistancetosupport
afterpricespushedpastit,andanewpattern—anexpandingwedge—wasformed.
support. Even though the line had been violated, it was useful in future
yearsasaguidelineforpricebehavior.
WHEN PATTERNS WORK TOGETHER
Apatternonitsowncanbeagoodindicatoroffuturepricedirection,but
two patterns working in concert, pointing to the same direction, can add
evenmorecredencetotheprediction.
The patterns need not be similar, although they can be. For example,
therightshoulderofaheadandshoulderspatternmightitselfbeasmaller
headandshoulderspattern.Oryoumightfindtwobullishpatterns(orbear-
ishpatterns)appearingonthesamechartinapproximatelythesametime
frame.
Figure1.15isanexampleofthis.ThestockistheUtilityHOLDRSTrust
(symbol UTH). There are two bearish situations shown here: the first is
that UTH broke beneath an extremely long ascending trend line, which
indicates a possible change in direction from bullish to bearish. As the
pricemeanderedalongduringthelastfewmonthsof2005andthefirstfew
monthsof 2006, itformedaverywell-defined head and shoulders pattern
whosenecklineitpierced.Sincethesetwopatternswerebothbearishand

P1:OTA
c01 JWBT295-Knight May3,2010 12:33 Printer:Yettocome
TechnicalAnalysis 19
FIGURE 1.15 Thischartshowstwopatternsinaction—anascendingtrendline,
whichwasviolated,andaheadandshoulderspattern.
happened roughlyinthesame period,itmadeadoubly bearish argument
forUTH’sdirection.
MORE BREAKOUTS
Let us take some more time looking at examples of various breakouts to
strengthenourunderstandingofwhattolookforandhowpotentthesecan
be.Your“chartsense”—thatis,yourabilitytorecognizepatternsincharts
withouttheirbeingpointedouttoyou—willmainlycomefromexperience.
Theexamplesinthisbookareafirststeptowardthatgoal.
The first chart is for EMC Corporation (symbol EMC) from 1988
through 2000 (see Figure 1.16). For about four years, EMC formed a cup
with handle pattern, whose resistance is illustrated by the horizontal line
onthechart.Thereareavarietyofthingstonoticeaboutthischart:
(cid:1)
Thevolumewasslowlypickingupduringtheformationofthebreak-
out pattern; it’s always encouraging to see interest in a stock grow,
evenbeforethebreakout.
(cid:1)
Whenthestockdidbreakout(indicatedbythecircle),itpausedfora
littlewhile,butitdidnotsinkbeneaththeformerresistanceline;thus,
thepatternwastestedsuccessfully.
(cid:1)
Subsequenttothebreakout,volumeincreasedsteadily.

P1:OTA
c01 JWBT295-Knight May3,2010 12:33 Printer:Yettocome
20 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
FIGURE 1.16 EMC’sstockblastedthousandsofpercenthigherafterabreakout
fromabase.Thevolumepickeduphandsomelyovertheyears.
From the point of the breakout, the stock went on to an almost un-
thinkable 40,000 percent gain. A mere $1,000 invested in this stock and
soldatthetopwouldhavebeenworth$400,000.
The next breakout (Figure 1.17) illustrates how you never can tell
whenaboringstockisgoingtogetexciting.ThestockisHansenNatural
Corporation(symbolHANS),which,forasix-yearperiod,musthavebeen
one of the most uninteresting stocks around. It bounced between a split-
adjusted $1.50 and $2.50 month after month, year after year. And little
wonder—this was a very small company selling fruit juice beverages in
aworlddominatedbyCoca-ColaandPepsi.
Thatallchangedinlate2003,aboutthetimethecompanyenteredthe
market for energy drinks. It was clear that this was an important break-
out point, because the basing pattern was so old and well-established. It
shouldalsobenotedherethatit’sattimeslikethesewhenastockseems
expensive.Afterall,thinkbacktohowthestockwouldhavelookedback
then: it would be at an all-time high, and you would be paying more than
anyone else had paid for more than six years. So you can imagine why
peoplewouldbereluctanttopay$3.00forastockthatsomanyothershad
bought for between $1.50 and $2.50. It would be tempting to wait for the
pricetoeasebackdownagaintothelowerdepthsofitssix-year-oldrange.
Butthisopportunitynevercame.Thestockjuststartedclimbing,aban-
doningitsoldlevels.Interestingly,volumecontinuedtobethin,evenwhile

P1:OTA
c01 JWBT295-Knight May3,2010 12:33 Printer:Yettocome
TechnicalAnalysis 21
FIGURE 1.17 One of the hottest stocks of 2004 and 2005, Hansen Natural
Corporation,madeitsmoveafterbreakingaboveaverywell-formedsaucerpattern
inlate2003.
the stock doubled from $3.50 to $7.00 in the first few months of 2004. In
May2004,however,volumeincreasedfrom10or20thousandsharesaday
tooneortwomillionsharesaday.Youcanseethetremendousincrease
involume,whichneverabated.Thestockstayedaboveitsascendingtrend
linetheentiretime,increasingahandsome4,100percentfromitsbreakout
pointasofthetimeofthiswriting.
Itisn’tjustunknownlittlecompaniesthatcancreateamazingreturns,
however.Takealookat3MCorporation,oneofthesolidestbluechipcom-
paniesaround,andcertainlyonethatwaswidelyknowninthe1980s.Look
atFigure1.18andseehowthecompany’sstockbuiltanamazingcupwith
handle formation over more than a decade. From 1973 to 1986, the com-
pany’sstockwentessentiallynowhere,butitwascarvingwhatturnedout
tobeanincrediblypotentbasepattern.
In1986and1987,thecompany’sstockrose,butduringthecrashofOc-
tober1987,prettymuchallthevaluethathadbeenaddedtothestockwas
wipedoutinamatterofafewdays.What’sespeciallyinteresting,though,
isthat1987’scrashisalmostaninconsequentialblipinthegrandscheme
of the chart, as 3M went on to an impressive 8,600 percent gain over the
next 17 years. Once the basing and breakout were finished, the stock ba-
sicallyneverwentdownandbecameoneofthebest-performingstocksof
anykind,bluechiporotherwise.

P1:OTA
c01 JWBT295-Knight May3,2010 12:33 Printer:Yettocome
22 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
FIGURE 1.18 Thisverylong-termgraphof3MCorporationillustratesthateven
overalongtimeperiod,technicalanalysishastremendousweight.Thebreakoutin
themid-1980swasthefirststeptoastaggeringriseinthevalueof3M.
Onelastexampleofabreakoutshowsonceagainhowvitalvolumeis.
A bullish move almost always requires volume to power it up, whereas a
bearish pattern can make a stock collapse on its own weight. PetroChina
(symbolPTR)hadanexplosioninvolumeperfectlycorrelatedtoitsbreak-
outfromacupwithhandlepatterninthespringof2003.Noticethehigh-
lightedportionofthevolumebarsindicatingthischangeinFigure1.19.The
volumeisthegasolinethatfeedsthefireofhigherstockprices.Asbuyers
clamor to get into a stock, the excitement feeds off itself. It took a three-
foldriseinthestock’spricebeforePTRpausedatallanditspriceseased
forawhile.
MORE BREAKDOWNS
Thesameprinciplesthatrelatetoascendingstockpricesholdtrueforde-
scendingprices,exceptthatvolumeisn’tquitesoimportant.Butwhatyou
need to watch are the same simple guidelines of support, resistance, and
patternrecognition.
CMSEnergy(symbolCMS)isshowninFigure1.20.Thestockhadbeen
a top performer from 1985 through 1999, rising well over 10-fold. In 1998

P1:OTA
c01 JWBT295-Knight May3,2010 12:33 Printer:Yettocome
TechnicalAnalysis 23
FIGURE 1.19 Thegiganticriseinvolumewasanimportantfactorinthisstock’s
pushhigher.
FIGURE 1.20 Patternscanrangeintimefromdaystoyears—thisheadandshoul-
derspatternformedoveraperiodoftwoyearsuntilitbrokebeneathitsheadlinein
thesecondhalfof1999.

P1:OTA
c01 JWBT295-Knight May3,2010 12:33 Printer:Yettocome
24 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
FIGURE 1.21 Juniper lost about 97 percent of its peak value once it broke be-
neaththenecklineofitsheadandshoulderspattern.
and 1999, however, a head and shoulders pattern formed, and the price
brokebeneaththeneckline.Thepriceshoredupandretestedtheneckline
(whichwastheidealtimetoshortthestock,sincetheriskwasthelowest)
before beginning to fall in earnest. Notice that the fall took some time to
fullyunfold;thestockactuallyrecoveredmostofitslossesbythespringof
2001, only tobegin itsslide once more. By the timeit was over, CMS had
lost90percentofitsvaluefromitspeak.
An even more amazing fall from grace is illustrated with Figure 1.21,
which is Juniper Networks (symbol JNPR). This stock fell from $245 to
$5 in just two years. A skilled technical analyst would have seen a bad
fall coming based on the stock’s behavior in 2000. Although the head and
shouldersformationissomewhatmorecomplexthannormal,theneckline
iswelldefined,andthepricesdidretestthenecklinebeautifully.
Whatmadethefallofthisstocksodramaticwasitsincrediblerisebe-
forehand.Thestockhadincreasedinvaluefromabout$18inthespringof
1999to$245inthesummerof2000,sotheascentwasveryrapid.Because
of this, there were very few areas of support on the way down when the
stockstartedfalling.ThinkbacktotheRedRovergamedescribedearlier
in this chapter; there simply weren’t any lines of people chained together
toslowthestockdown.Oncethepricestartedfalling,itrarelypaused,un-
tilthebuyersandsellersreachedastateofequilibrium.Butevenby2006,

P1:OTA
c01 JWBT295-Knight May3,2010 12:33 Printer:Yettocome
TechnicalAnalysis 25
FIGURE 1.22 Not all price breakdowns include a pullback. For this chart, after
thepricebroke,itdidn’tpauseuntilitlostoverhalfitsvalue.
afterthestockhadrecoveredsome,thestockpricewasbasicallythesame
astheinitialpublicofferingpricefromsevenyearsearlier.
It has been mentioned a number of times that when a stock starts to
fall, it may retrace some of the fall to test the pattern from which it had
fallen. This isn’t always the case, so you won’t necessarily be able to get
intoatradeifyouconsistentlywaitforabetterprice.Afinalexampleofa
stock’scollapse,whichillustratesthispoint,isFigure1.22.Oncethestock
fellbeneathitsnecklineat$33,itneverlookedback.Thestockultimately
bottomed at $9, months later, but those who were waiting for the price
to retest the neckline never would have had the opportunity to enter a
position.
CHARTING FOR YOURSELF
Inthischapter,wehavefocusedonexamplesfromthepast.Nowlet’slook
to the future and learn how to make some graphs using ProphetCharts.
Chapter2isgoingtointroduceyoutotheprogramanditsbasicfunctions
so you can start to build your own chart sense with your own computer
andthestocksthatinterestyoupersonally.

P1:OTA
c02 JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 9:7 Printer:Yettocome
C H A P T E R 2
Fundamentals of
Chart Creation
I
n this chapter, we get down to the business of actual charting. You
aregoingtolearnaboutdifferentcharttypes,howtosizeandarrange
charts, and the differences of charting different kinds of financial in-
struments,amongmanyothertopics.
The first task is to actually get to the charting system itself, which is
ProphetCharts.TogettoProphetCharts,you’llneedthreethings:
1. Acomputerwithhigh-speedInternetaccess.
2. A browser equipped with Java (such as a recent version of Firefox,
Chrome,Safari,orInternetExplorer).
3. Access to ProphetCharts via the Investools Investor Toolbox (www.
investools.com) or the thinkorswim brokerage platform (www.
thinkorswim.com).
For the purposes of this book, we assume that you are starting from
scratch; that is, you have no saved chart styles, study sets, watch lists, or
anyothersettings.Thereisnoharmifyoudohavesomesettingsalready,
butweapproachthisfromthevantagepointofhavingacleanslate.
ARITHMETIC VERSUS LOGARITHMIC
One of the most important properties of a chart is whether it is arith-
meticallyscaled orlogarithmically scaled. Now thismayseem likeavery
26

P1:OTA
c02 JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 9:7 Printer:Yettocome
FundamentalsofChartCreation 27
FIGURE 2.1 The arithmetic scale spaces all prices equally, which can create a
distortedviewforthetechnicalanalyst.
esoteric,arcanesubject,butit’sreallyquiteimportant.Let’sseewhatthis
isallaboutwithanexample.
First,Figure2.1showsanexampleofastockthatwentfromaboutsix
cents up to eight dollars, a huge 133-fold increase. Note that the chart is
arithmetically scaled. Figure 2.2 shows the exact same stock in the same
timeperiodlogarithmically(alsocalled“log”)scaled.
What are some of the differences you see? Generally speaking, the
activity in 2002 and 2003 (when the stock was cheaper) is far more pro-
nouncedthaninlateryears.Onthearithmeticgraph,2002and2003seem
tobealmostdevoidofactivity,whereasontheloggraph,thestockisatits
mostdynamic.
Thereasonforthisissimple—anarithmeticgraphisconstructedwith
thevaluesofthey-axis(thatis,theprices)equallyspaced.Thedifference
between50centsand$1.00isthesameasthedifferencebetween$10and
$10.50—or$100and$100.50,forthatmatter.Nomatterwhattheprice,the
barsarescaledthesameway.
A log graph, however, represents percentage changes correctly. So if
youtookarulerandmeasuredthedistancefrom50centsto$1.00,itwould
bethesameasthedistancebetween$100and$200,becausetheyareboth
movementsof100percent.
Tobemoredirectaboutit,thereisnoreasonyoueverneedtousean
arithmeticgraphwhenlookingatastockchart.Itcanbadlymisrepresent

P1:OTA
c02 JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 9:7 Printer:Yettocome
28 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
FIGURE 2.2 The log scale represents price movement in terms of percentage
change,whichisfarmoreappropriateforanalysis.
the movement of a financial instrument (be it a stock, a future, or a mu-
tualfund),becauseittreatsallpricemovementsasidentical,evenifthey
arenot.
If you were given theopportunity to own $10,000 worthof stock that
movedfrom50centsto$1.00andanalternativeopportunitytoown$10,000
worth of stock that moved from $100 to $100.50, which would you rather
have?Ifyouareeconomicallyrational,youwouldtakethefirstchoicebe-
cause you’ll make $10,000 in profit, whereas in the second instance you’ll
make a $50 profit. But an arithmetic graph would represent these price
movementsasidentical,whichclearlytheyarenot.
So check the “Log” checkbox in the upper-right corner of
ProphetChartsasshowninFigure2.3;you’llneverhavetotouchitagain.
(Actually,thedefaultisLog.Youhavetomakeanefforttogetoutofthis
modeofcharting!)
FIGURE 2.3 Checkthelogcheckboxsothatallyourchartswilluselogscaling
insteadofarithmeticscaling.

P1:OTA
c02 JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 9:7 Printer:Yettocome
FundamentalsofChartCreation 29
DIFFERENT INSTRUMENTS,
DIFFERENT CHARTS
Beforedelvingintocharts,youshouldunderstandsomesubtledifferences
that exist among different financial instruments that can be charted. Al-
thoughthevastmajorityofthereadersofthisbookwillbechartingstocks,
take a moment to understand these differences about charting various
kindsofinvestments:
Stocks—Datawillincludetheopen,high,low,andcloseofastockfor
each given day (or whatever time period is chosen)m as well as
thevolumeforthatsametimeperiod.Itisalsoimportanttonote
thatstocksareadjustedforsplitsanddividends,whichmeansthat
valuesforsomestockswillchangeovertimetotaketheseevents
into account. So if a given stock was $50 on a certain day, and
later that stock has a 2-for-1 split, then the price will be adjusted
to$25.
Indices—The data may be identical to stocks (open, high, low, close,
volume),butsomeindicesdonothaveallofthisinformation.Most
typically, index data will not have accompanying volume data. In
somecases,onlytheclosingpricewillbeavailable.
Mutual Funds—Only the closing price will be available, which in the
world of mutual funds is known as the Net Asset Value (NAV).
There is no volume for mutual funds. Mutual fund distributions
are taken into account, so that fund prices are adjusted for these
distributions in a similar manner as stocks that are adjusted for
splits.
Futures/Commodities—These markets contain the same price data
(open,high,low,andclose)andvolumedataasstocks.Theyalso
haveoneextrafield,knownasopeninterest,whichisdisplayedin
thevolumeportionofthechart.Openinterestrepresentsthenum-
berofopencontractsonaparticularmarketandisshownasaline
inFigure2.4.
Options—Thedatafieldsforthesechartsareidenticaltofutures;you
should note, however, that both options and futurestend tohave
fairly short life spans (usually just a couple of months), so the
graphs tend to look quite different from those for stocks, which
canspandecades.
Forex—Heretheinformationisonly onedata point per timeinterval,
andunlikeanyoftheotherinstruments,itdefinesarelationshipof
onethingtoanother.Forexample,thepopularEUR/USDcurrency
pairdefinestheratiooftheeurototheU.S.dollar.

P1:OTA
c02 JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 9:7 Printer:Yettocome
30 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
FIGURE 2.4 Theblacklineillustratestheopeninterestforthecommoditybeing
charted.Itappearsinthesamepaneasthevolumebars.
Regardless of what you are charting, one other fact to understand is
thateachbar(orpoint)representsaspecificsegmentintime.Thatsegment
could be as little as a single minute or as great as a year. We will go into
muchmoredetailabouttheseinstrumenttypesinChapter5.
LET’S START CHARTING
Once you are on the ProphetCharts page, go ahead and type in a symbol
(suchasQQQQ)andpressEnter.Inamoment,thedatashouldload,and
thechartshouldbedisplayedonyourscreen.
It’svaluabletounderstandthatthedataneedonlyloadonceforagiven
symbol.Onceyouhaveachartonyourscreen,anymodificationsyoumake
tothatchart—suchasapplyingstudies,puttingdrawnobjectsonit,zoom-
ingintoit,orrearrangingtheelementsofthechartscreen—donotrequire
another download of the data. The only time ProphetCharts has to fetch
dataagainisifyouwanttoloadinanewsymbolorifyouloadinadiffer-
entamountofdataforthesamesymbol(forinstance,ifyouloadtwoyears
ofdatawhenbeforeyouhadjustone).
In the lower-left corner of ProphetCharts is a button labeled Detach.
Clickingthisbuttondetachestheapplet(whichisatermwewillconsider
synonymous with ProphetCharts) from its place on the browser window
and allows you to resize it any way you like. Double-clicking the title bar
of the applet will maximize it, causing it to fill the entire screen. Because
screenrealestateishelpfulwhencharting,youmayfinditusefultodetach
theappletanytimeyouuseProphetChartsinordertogiveitthemaximum
availableworkspace.

P1:OTA
c02 JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 9:7 Printer:Yettocome
FundamentalsofChartCreation 31
ZOOMING FOR A BETTER VIEW
Onceyouhaveachartonthescreen,youcanzoomintolookatitinmore
detail. There are a couple of different ways to do this: the zoom tool and
thecursorselection.
Thezoomtoolislocatedinthelower-rightcornerofthescreen;there
areactuallytwoiconsrelatedtozooming(Figure2.5),bothofwhichlook
likemagnifyingglasses.Theonewithaplussign(+)zoomsintothechart,
whereastheonewiththeminussign(–)zoomsout.
Clicking on the zoom-in tool will show you the rightmost half of the
charteachtimeyouclickit.So,forexample,ifyouarelookingattwoyears
ofdailydata,clickingzoom-inoncewillchangethecharttojustoneyear
ofdata,andclickingitagainwillyieldsixmonths,threemonths,andsoon.
Conversely,clickingonthezoom-outtoolwillproducetheoppositeresult
(threemonths,sixmonths,andsoforth)untiltheentiretyofthechartdata
youoriginallyselectedisdisplayed.
The other method of zooming is more flexible, since it allows you to
homeinonanyvisiblepartofthechart.Thisswipemethodissimple:
1. Point to the portion of the chart where you want to begin zooming,
thenclickthemousebutton.
2. While holding down your mouse button, drag the mouse to the point
whereyouwantthezoomingtostop(itdoesn’tmatterifyouswipeto
the left or the right, although usually it’s more intuitive for people to
gofromlefttoright,sincethatishowtimeprogressesonthechart).
3. Release the mouse button, and the highlighted area of the chart will
instantlybedisplayed.
During the zooming-in process (Figure 2.6), you will see the portion
youareswipinghighlighted.Youcandragthemouseleftorrightuntilyou
aresatisfiedwithyourselection,atwhichtimeyoucanreleasethemouse.
Toreverttotheoriginal,completechart,double-clickthemouseany-
whereinthechartarea.
FIGURE 2.5 The zoom-in and zoom-out icons are in the lower-right corner of
ProphetCharts.

P1:OTA
c02 JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 9:7 Printer:Yettocome
32 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
FIGURE 2.6 Draggingthemouseoveraportionofthechartwillzoomintothat
partofthegraph.
DATA DETAILS
OneofthemostbasicbutusefulfeaturesofProphetChartsistheabilityto
seepreciseinformationforanysinglepointonagraph.Thisinformationis
displayedonthedataline(Figure2.7)justabovethegraph.
Theinformationinthedatalinecorrespondstowhereverthecursoris
pointingonthechart(or,ifthecursorisnotinsidethechart,itdisplaysthe
information for where the cursor was most recently in the chart). There
areone-characterlabelsprecedingeachelementofthedataline,andhere
iswhattheymean:
D:Thedate(intheexampleshown,November4,2002).Ifyouarelook-
ingatanintradaygraph,thisdatapointincludesboththedateand
thetime.
O:Openingpriceforthatpricebar.
H:Highpriceforthatpricebar.
L:Lowpriceforthatpricebar.
C:Closing(orlast)priceforthatpricebar.
FIGURE 2.7 Thedatalineshowsthepricedatafortheonepricebarwherethe
cursorispointed.

P1:OTA
c02 JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 9:7 Printer:Yettocome
FundamentalsofChartCreation 33
FIGURE 2.8 The data line for intraday graphs also shows the time of the bar
whosepricesaredisplayed.
R: Range, which is the difference in price between the high and the
low. This can be useful information if you are seeking securities
withalargeamountofvolatility.ThelargertheRvalue,themore
pricevolatilitytookplaceduringthattimeperiod.
Y: Y-value of wherever you are pointing. In other words, this reflects
the price value at the place where you are pointing. So if you are
lookingatachartandpointatapartofthechartwhereyouthink
the price will fall or rise, the Y figure tells you the price at which
youarepointing.
InFigure2.8,forexample,isadatalinefromanintradaychart.Notice
howthetimehasalsobeenaddedtothedata.Thetimewillrepresentthe
starting point of the intraday bar. For example, if a particular price bar
representstheactivityfrom11:15until11:30(a15-minutebar),thetimeon
thedatalinewouldsay11:15.ThedatalineinFigure2.8isfromaminute
graph,soitshowsthatoneparticularminute:2:04P.M.
Thedatalineisn’tshownjustforpricedata,however.Technicalstud-
ies, both overlaid (that is, appearing in the same area as the price data)
and those in separate panes have their relevant data displayed as well
(Figure2.9).Whatisshownwilldependontheindicator,buttheconceptis
FIGURE 2.9 When technical studies are displayed, the information for the seg-
mentoftimewherethecursorispointedisdisplayedinthedataline.

P1:OTA
c02 JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 9:7 Printer:Yettocome
34 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
FIGURE 2.10 The Symbols menu lets you find any stock, option, or futures
symbol.
thesame:therelevantinformationforthatstudywillappearforwhatever
dayofdatatowhichyourcursorispointed.
SEARCHING FOR SYMBOLS
ProphetChartsprovidesmanydifferentkindsoffinancialinstruments,but
youmaynotalwaysrememberthesymbolassociatedwithwhatyouwant
tochart.Therearethreehelpfulsymbolsearchtoolsbuiltintotheprogram.
Togettoanyofthese,clickontheSymbolsmenu(Figure2.10)atthetop
oftheapplet.
Thefirstselection,SymbolSearch,letsyousearchforanyequitysym-
bol (which includes mutual funds) based on its name. You don’t have to
know the entire name of the company—just a portion is all you need to
enter.Typeinasmuchofthenameasyoulike,andeitherpressEnteror
clickSearch.TheresultsareshowninFigure2.11.
Onceyoufindthename(andsymbol)youwanttochart,youcaneither
double-click on your choice or select it (with one mouse click) and click
on the Get Chart button. The Symbol Search dialog box will remain open
incaseyouwanttofindothersymbols,andyoucanseetheresultingchart
behind it. Once you are through looking for symbols, you can click the
Closebutton.
OPTIONS SEARCH
If you have ever traded options, you already know that the symbols are
virtuallyimpossibletoremember.Theyareacombinationofarootsymbol
(which often has little correlation to the underlying security symbol), a
strikesymbol,andanexpirationsymbol.Addedtothiscomplicationisthe
factthatit’sdifficulttoknowwhatstrikesandmonthsareavailableforany
givenstockorindex.

P1:OTA
c02 JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 9:7 Printer:Yettocome
FundamentalsofChartCreation 35
FIGURE 2.11 Enteringaportionofacompany’snamewillyieldallthecompany
namesthathavethataspartoftheirname.
TheOptionsSearchwizardinProphetChartseliminatesthisproblem.
Choose“FindOption...”fromtheSymbolsmenu,andtheOptionsWizard
appears.
The only information you need to provide is the stock symbol whose
optionyouwanttofind.EnterthesymbolintheSymbolboxandclickthe
Set button (Figure 2.12). This will cause the Options Wizard to query the
FIGURE 2.12 The Options Wizard makes it easy to locate an arcane options
symbolbasedonasmallamountofinformation.

P1:OTA
c02 JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 9:7 Printer:Yettocome
36 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
databaseforallexpirationmonthsandstrikepricesavailableforapartic-
ularstock.
Oncethisinformationisloaded,choosetheexpirationmonthandyear
you want from the Expiration dropdown, the strike price you want from
theStrikePricedropdown,andclickGetChart.
FUTURES SEARCH
Because there are tens of thousands of stocks and funds, the Symbol
Searchisbasedonenteringasmuchofthenameasyouknow.Thereare
only a few hundred futures markets, however, so it’s possible to take a
simpler,hierarchicalapproachtofindingwhatyouneed.
When you click on Find Future, a dialog box appears (Figure 2.13)
thatismostlyblank,exceptforadropdownmenulabeled“Groups.”These
groupsaregeneralcategoriesoffutures(suchas“Grains”or“Currencies”)
fromwhichyoucanchoose.
ClickontheGroupsdropdownandselectthegroupofinteresttoyou.
Once you do, the dropdown beneath Groups is filled with the individual
marketsthatcomprisethatgroup.Forexample,ifyouchooseGrains,mar-
ketssuchasCorn,Soybeans,andWheatwillappearforyourselection.You
shouldthereforechoosewhichmarketinparticularisofinteresttoyou.
Whenyoudothis,theFuturesWizarddoessomethingveryhelpful:it
ascertains for that market what years and months are available from the
FIGURE 2.13 TheFuturesWizardguidesyouthroughtheprocessoffindingthe
futurescontractyouwanttoview.

P1:OTA
c02 JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 9:7 Printer:Yettocome
FundamentalsofChartCreation 37
FIGURE 2.14 As you select different choices from the dropdown menus in the
FuturesWizard,theavailablecontractsforthatmarketwillbepresentedtoyoufor
selection.
database. This can be a real time-saver, since the months and years for
differentmarketsvarywidely.InFigure2.14,forinstance,Wheathasbeen
chosen, so all of the possible years (from 1959 forward) and months for
WheatareloadedintotheYearandMonthdropdownmenus,withthefront
monthautomaticallyselectedasasuggestionforwhatyoumightwant.
Atthispoint,youcanclickonGetCharttoseethatparticularmonth.
Sointhisexample,theMarch2006Wheatcontractwillbedisplayedifyou
clickGetChart.Thereareseveralotherchoicesavailabletoyou,however:
Continuous. Futures contracts expire, and the amount of time any
givenfuturescontractisactiveistypicallyquiteshort—usuallyjust
a couple of months. So, unlike stocks, which can span decades,
mostfuturescontractsdon’thavemuchdataandthereforearen’t
very helpful in determining broad trends. A continuous contract,
however, chains together individual contracts to create a syn-
thetic,never-endingcontract.SoacontinuouscontractoftheS&P
500wouldchaintogetherMarch1987,June1987,September1987,
December1987,March1988,andsoon.Thisgivesyoutheopportu-
nitytoviewdecadesofmarketssuchaswheat,gold,andTreasury
bonds.
Anonadjustedcontinuouscontractisoneinwhichallthereg-
ular contracts are simply chained together without any alterna-
tion in price. However, some markets have fairly large gaps be-
tweencontracts.Thisisoftentheresultofamarketbeingseasonal

P1:OTA
c02 JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 9:7 Printer:Yettocome
38 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
(in other words, markets that are crops, not financial commodi-
ties). You can distinguish which kind of continuous contract you
want—adjusted or nonadjusted—by selecting your choice from
thedropdownmenunexttotheContinuousradiobutton.
CashOnly.Someofthefuturesmarketshavecorrespondingcashmar-
ketsavailableinProphetCharts.Ifyouwanttoseethecashmarket
(alsoknownasthespotmarket),clicktheCashOnlyradiobutton.
There is no guarantee that the cash data are available, however.
Butapropersymbolforitwillbeconstructed.
CashOverlay.Insteadofseeingjustthecashmarket,youcanoverlay
afuturesmarketwithitscashmarketinthesamegraph.Clickthe
CashOverlayradiobuttontodothissoyoucansee,forexample,
howtheS&PfuturescontractcorrelatestotheunderlyingS&P500
cashindex.
STREAMING CHARTS
OneofProphetChart’smostusefulfeaturesistheabilitytostreamdata.In
otherwords,youcanmakethechartcomealivewithreal-timequotesthat
alsodisplaythechartinmotionduringthetradingday.
Tochangeastaticcharttoastreamingchart,clicktheStreamcheck-
box(asshowninFigure2.15).WhenyouclickStream,twothingshappen.
First,thechartcomestolifewithadynamicpricebarontherightmostpart
ofthechart.Soasquotescomein,thebarwillgrowandchangetoreflect
the open, high, low, and last price data for that particular bar. Once that
timeperiodhaspassed,thebarbecomespartofthehistoricalchartanda
newbarbegins.
The length of time represented depends on the kind of chart you are
using.Ifyouarelookingataminutebarchart,thestreamingbarwillrep-
resentanywherefromonesecondofinformation(whenitfirstbegins)to
oneminuteofinformation(whenitiscomplete).Andallthebarstoitsleft
will also represent one minute of time. So the graph will grow during the
course of the day, as the stock you are watching bobs up and down with
priceactivity.
FIGURE 2.15 ClickingthecheckboxnexttoStreamwillchangethegraphintoa
streamingchart.

P1:OTA
c02 JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 9:7 Printer:Yettocome
FundamentalsofChartCreation 39
FIGURE 2.16 The upper-left portion of ProphetCharts becomes a streaming
quotepanelwhentheStreamboxischecked.
The other thing that happens (shown in Figure 2.16) when you click
Stream is that the upper-left corner of ProphetCharts changes into a
streamingquotepanel.
Thispanelshowsyouthemostrecentinformationforthesecurityyou
are charting. Each data point is clearly labeled, and the Last Trade line
shows you the time stamp for the quote being shown, which will tell you
howrecentthequoteis.
CHARTING DIFFERENT TIME PERIODS
ProphetChartshasaccesstotwobroadlydifferentkindsofdata:intraday
data,whichcanbeinsegmentsasshortasoneminuteeach,anddailydata,
whichistypicallypresentedasdailybarsbutcanalsobeshownincruder
granularity(suchasweeklyormonthly).
Whenyouselecthowmuchtimeyouwanttoseeinachart,youhave
twochoicestomake:thedurationofthechartandthefrequency.Thedura-
tion(Figure2.17)issimplyhowfarbackintimethedatago.Thedropdown
menu to the right of the symbol entry shows you the available durations.
Forintraday,therangeisfrom1dayto60days,andfordaily,theduration
can be anywhere from 1 month to all (which, although ambiguous, will
fetchallthedataavailableinthesystemforthatsymbol).
The bottom choice on the Duration dropdown is called Custom. This
letsyouselectaspecificdaterange,whichdoesn’tnecessarilyhavetoend
at the present. For instance, perhaps you want to chart the stock market
crashof1987andnothingmore.
WhenyouselectCustom,adialogboxappearswithtwocalendarsdis-
played.Thecalendarontheleftisforyoutochoosethestartdate,andthe
calendar on the right is for the end date. For clarity, any days that are a

P1:OTA
c02 JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 9:7 Printer:Yettocome
40 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
FIGURE 2.17 Choose the duration FIGURE 2.18 The frequency menu
from the dropdown menu to indicate controls how much time is represented
how much time you want to see in the ineachpricebarofthegraph.
graph.
weekend day or a holiday are displayed in red instead of black. To chart
a customized date range, simply select a start date and an end date; then
clickGetChart.
Once you choose a duration, ProphetCharts automatically loads that
amountofdatausingthefrequencyitconsidersappropriate.Sochoosing
“1 day” will automatically select a frequency of “1m” (that is, one-minute
bars);choosing“5days”willselect“5m”(five-minutebars);choosing“1Yr”
willchoose“D”(Daily)bars,andsoon.
You can choose a different frequency, however. Perhaps you want to
seemoredetailonthechart.Forexample,ifyouchooseAll,thefrequency
will automatically be set to M (for Monthly data). Perhaps you want to
see every day instead. You could therefore choose D from the frequency
menutogetmorefine-grainedinformation.Orifyouchosea60-daygraph,
it would automatically provide the prices in hourly bars, but perhaps you
want 10-minute bars instead—so you would make this selection from the
frequencydropdown,asshowninFigure2.18.

P1:OTA
c02 JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 9:7 Printer:Yettocome
FundamentalsofChartCreation 41
Youmayfindthatthefrequencyyouwantisn’tdisplayedonthedrop-
down.Forinstance,youmightwanttolookata3-minutebarora17-minute
bar. For intraday charts, you can double-click at the top of the frequency
dropdown and manually enter any whole integer you want. This lets you
enteranycustomizedfrequencyyouwantforanintradaychart.
As you create charts with different combinations of duration and fre-
quency,youwilldeterminetherearecertainkindsofchartsthatworkwell
foryou.Insteadofhavingtomakethesechoiceseverytimeyouwanttosee
acertainkindofchart(suchasa5-year-dailychart,a30-day-minutechart,
andsoon),youcancreatewhatisknownasachartstyletoautomatically
conjure up a preselected duration, frequency, and other properties (such
aswhetherthechartstreams,whetherthevolumeisshown,andwhatkind
ofgraphstyleitis).
FIGURE 2.19 Chart styles give you FIGURE 2.20 The Clone but-
one-clickaccesstoawidevarietyofset- ton, located in the lower-left of the
tingsyouestablishinadvancetocontrol applet, makes another instance of
the appearance of the chart that works ProphetCharts where you can create
bestforyou. differentcharts.

P1:OTA
c02 JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 9:7 Printer:Yettocome
42 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
We will explore how to create and save styles in Chapter 4, but it is
valuabletoknowthatthisfeatureisavailable.Asyoucreatedifferentstyles
(Figure 2.19), you should give them meaningful names that suggest what
thestyleswillinvoke.
CLONING CHARTS
When you are using ProphetCharts, you are not limited to just one chart
window.Youcancreatemultiplewindows,andthesewindowsdonothave
tocorrespondtooneanotherinanyway.Eachcanhavewhateversymbol,
style,studyset,orotherpropertiesyouchoose.
Clicking on Clone (Figure 2.20) will create another instance of
ProphetCharts. To create extra charts, click the Clone button located in
thelower-leftcorneroftheappletforeachnewinstance.
Thechartcreatedwillindeedbeacloneoftheoriginalchart.Perhaps
you don’t want it to be identical, but instead you want to see the same
symbol with a different style. If you do, instead of clicking on the word
Clone,clickthedown-pointingarrownexttoClone.Thiswillbringupalist
ofallthechartstylesyouhavecreated,andyoucanchooseanyofthem.
Thiscanbequitehandyifyouarecloselymonitoringastock.Forex-
ample,ifyouarelookingatthepastfiveyearsofdailydataonastock,and
youwanttoseelivemarketactivityonit,youmightcreateacloneofthe
past two days on a minute-by-minute basis (Figure 2.21). If you had such
FIGURE 2.21 Multiple charts give you a more complete view of the market’s
activity.

P1:OTA
c02 JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 9:7 Printer:Yettocome
FundamentalsofChartCreation 43
a chart style available, clicking that style name would create a new chart
withthatstyle.
NEXT UP
Wehavecoveredalotofgroundinthischapter,includingbasicchartprop-
erties, different kinds of financial instruments, viewing detailed data on a
chart, searching for symbols, streaming, and cloning. In the next chapter,
we will digdeeper intowhat else can contribute to achart style and how
wecansaveandmanagethesestylesforeasier,moreproductivetechnical
analysis.

P1:OTA
c03 JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 9:28 Printer:Yettocome
C H A P T E R 3
Modules and
Preferences
P
rophetChartshasfourareasthatoffercontrol:generalsettings,mod-
ules,menus,andthetoolbar.Thesecondofthese,modules,willbe
coveredwiththischapter.
ThemodulelistislocatedontheleftsideoftheProphetChartsapplet,
andalthoughithasavarietyoffunctions,theprincipleissimilarforeach
ofthem.Thatis,eachmoduleprovidesalistofchoices,andeachmodule
canbeeitherexpandedorcollapsed,dependingonwhetheryouareinter-
ested in it. You therefore can avoid cluttering your screen with items not
currentlyofinterest.
Figure3.1showswhatthemodulelistlookslikewhenallofthemod-
ulesarecollapsed.Thearrowsontheextremeleftcanbeclickedtoexpand
a list (if it is collapsed) or collapse a list (if it is expanded). Clicking any-
whereonthemoduletitlewillperformthisaction.
Noticethepairofarrowsintheupper-rightcornerofthemodulelist.
Thisindicatesthattheentirelistofmodulescanbecollapsedincaseyou
do not want access to any of the modules for the time being. This also
points out the dividing line where you can make the module list wider or
narrowerbydraggingit.
Figure 3.2 gives an example of resizing. When you point your mouse
to the vertical area to the right of the module list, the cursor becomes
a two-headed arrow. Once it does, you can hold down the mouse but-
ton and drag to the right (for a wider module list) or the left (for a nar-
rower list). Doing this is a trade-off between giving the modules plenty
of space (so there is more room for names of technical studies, stock
names, and so on) and reducing your chart space. This figure shows
44

P1:OTA
c03 JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 9:28 Printer:Yettocome
ModulesandPreferences 45
FIGURE 3.1 Allthemoduletitlesare FIGURE 3.2 By dragging the bar on
shown with no content beneath them the right side of the module pane, you
whenallthemodulesarecollapsed. canresizeittoyourliking.
a user reducing the size of the modules so that the chart area has
moreroom.
As mentioned previously, there is a one-click method of instantly
changing the module size: clicking either the left-pointing (“collapse”) or
right-pointing(“revert”)arrowsinthedivisionbar.Ifyouclickthecollapse
arrow, the module will instantly shrink to nothing, maximizing the space
youhaveforcharting.Ifyouclicktherevertarrow,itwillreturntowhat-
ever size it was before you collapsed it. Figure 3.3 shows what happens
whencollapseisclicked:thereisnomoduleatallontheleft,andonlythe
arrowswithinthedividinglineremain.
BASIC MODULE BEHAVIOR
Asyouknowalready,clickingthetitlebarofamodulewillmakethemod-
ule expand (if collapsed) and collapse (if expanded). Typically, only one
FIGURE 3.3 If the left-pointing arrow on the module area is clicked, the entire
modulepanecollapses,givingyoumoreroomforyourchart.

P1:OTA
c03 JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 9:28 Printer:Yettocome
46 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
FIGURE 3.4 Holdingthemousepointeroverthemodule’spincausesatooltip
toappear.Clickingthispintogglesbetweenforcingthemoduleopenorpermitting
ittobeclosed.
modulewillbeopenatatime.Forinstance,ifMyWatchListsisopenand
youclicktheChartToppers,thenMyWatchListswillcollapseandChart
Topperswillexpand.ThisisProphetCharts’wayofgivingyouasmuchin-
formationinthe module aspossible, since itassumes whatever you most
recentlyclickediswhatinterestsyou.
However, you might want more than one module open at the same
time. To do this, you can pin any module you want to remain open, even
ifothersareopened.Youcanpinasmanymodulesasyouwant,uptothe
extremeofhavingeverysinglemoduleopensimultaneously.
AsshowninFigure3.4,thepinbuttonisasmallcircleontherightside
of the module’s title bar. When you put your mouse cursor on top of it, a
tooltipwillappear,remindingyouthatclickingthiswillkeepthemodule
open. If you click it, it will turn black (and the module will be pinned).
Clicking it again turns it back to an empty circle (and the module will no
longerbepinnedopen).
InFigure3.5,youcanseefourmodulesopenatthesametime:Quote,
My Study Sets, Indices, and Quick Toggles. Notice that the pinned-open
moduleshavethesolidblackcircleontherightpartoftheirtitlebar.Also
notethattheQuotemoduledoesn’thavesuchacircle.Thereasonisthat
Quote has the special behavior of remaining open even when other mod-
ulesareopenbecauseit’sverycommontowanttoseethequotedata,even
ifyouarelookingatothermodules.
THE DETAILS OF EACH MODULE
Let’s take a look at each of the modules in detail. Although they have a
number of features in common (collapse/expand, ability to pin), each of
themisuniqueinbothfunctionandfeatures.

P1:OTA
c03 JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 9:28 Printer:Yettocome
ModulesandPreferences 47
FIGURE 3.5 Byclickingseveralpinsinthemodulepane,youcankeepseveralof
themodulesopenatonce.

P1:OTA
c03 JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 9:28 Printer:Yettocome
48 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
FIGURE 3.6 TheQuotepanelshowsallthemostrecentpriceinformation,includ-
ingthetimestampofthelasttrade.
Quote
The Quote module provides you with streaming price information on the
security you have charted. Whether the quote is real-time or delayed de-
pends on whether you are entitled to receive real-time data. When the
Quotemoduleison,itwillprovideyouthemostrecentpriceinformation
towhichyouareentitled.
TheinformationprovidedintheQuotepanel(Figure3.6)includes:
Last:themostrecentquoteavailabletoyou.
Change:thechangeinpricecomparedwiththepriorday’sclose.
Bid:thehighestpricesomeoneisofferingforthissecurity.
Ask:thelowestpriceatwhichsomeoneissellingthissecurity.
Size: the quantity of shares offered (in 100s) being bought (first) and
sold(second).
Open:thefirstpriceofthedayforthissecurity.
High:thehighpriceofthedaysofar.
Low:thelowpriceofthedaysofar.
TotalVol:thetotalquantityofshares(orcontracts)tradedsofartoday.
Last Trade:thetimestampofthemostrecenttrade;thisismosttyp-
ically in whatever time zone the exchange is located (which, for
stocks, would be EST), but this time stamp will display in your
own time zone if you have set that in preferences (which will be
addressedlaterinthischapter).
Patterns: Symbols
In Chapter 14, you will learn about the pattern recognition tools that are
builtintoProphetCharts.Thismoduleiswherethesymbolsresultingfrom

P1:OTA
c03 JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 9:28 Printer:Yettocome
ModulesandPreferences 49
apatternsearcharehoused.Unlessyouperformapatternsearch,thismod-
ulewillbedevoidofcontent.
Candle Patterns: Symbols
Similarly,thismoduleisspecificallyusedtohousetheresultsofapattern
search—specifically, a candlestick pattern search. You will learn how to
executethiskindofsearchinChapter14also.
Phase 1 and 2 Scores
Used mainly by fundamental analysts who have been trained with In-
vestoolseducation,thephase1and2scoresrepresentinaveryshorthand
way the fundamental strength or weakness of a particular stock symbol.
Youcanlearnmoreaboutthisdataatwww.investools.com.
Currency Pairs
Foreignexchangetradingisbasedoncurrencypairs,suchastheeurover-
sus the U.S. dollar or the Japanese yen versus the Canadian dollar. All of
thesefiguresareratiosofonecurrencytoanother,andyoucangetinstant
accesstoanyoftheavailablepairswiththecurrencypairsmodule.
Themoduleissimplyalistofdozensupondozensofdifferentcurrency
pairs.Themainbenefittothismoduleisthatyouneednotrememberthe
arcanesymbolsthataccompanyFOREXmarkets.
Ratio Charts
RatiochartsarecoveredinChapter16.Inthismodule,youcanstorecus-
tomsymbolsyoucreatewiththeratiochartsfunction.Thismodulewillbe
blankatfirst,butasyoucreatecustomized symbols, itismuchlesstime-
consumingtopreservethosesymbolsinthismodulethantoenterthemby
handeverytimeyouwanttoseeyourchart.
My Watch Lists
Of all the modules, My Watch Lists is probably the most important and
themostfrequentlyused.Thisiswhereyoucanview,modify,andusethe
contentsofyourwatchlistsinProphetCharts.(Thesubjectofwatchlists
iscoveredinChapter4.)
Thecontentofthismoduleiseasytounderstandanduse.Eachwatch
listyouhavecreatedisdisplayed,andifthereareanysecuritiesinsidethe

P1:OTA
c03 JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 9:28 Printer:Yettocome
50 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
FIGURE 3.7 If a plus sign appears next to a watch list name, it has content.
Otherwise,itisanemptylist.
watchlist,thenameofthelistwillhaveaplussign(+)toitsleft,indicating
thelistcanbeexpandedtorevealitscontents.
Forexample,inFigure3.7thereareavarietyofwatchlists(Candidate
Options, Candidates Long, and so on). Four of these have a plus next to
them,meaningthatanyofthesefourcanhavetheirplussignclicked,which
wouldrevealthesecuritiescontainedineachofthoselists.Thosewithout
aplussignareemptywatchlists.
Unlike the modules panel, watch lists are not shown one at a time.
Whenyouopenawatchlist,itwillremainopen,evenifyouopenothers.
Youcanseethecontentsofallofyourwatchlistsbyclickingeachofthe
plussigns.Youalsohaveachoicewhetheryouwanttoseethesecurities
shown by their full name (such as the company’s name, in the case of
stocks) or only as symbols. This is controlled by the Watch Lists menu,
whereyoucanchooseeitherViewBySymbolorViewByCompanyName.
By default, View By Company Name is chosen (and therefore a check
markisnexttoit).
One very useful feature in My Watch Lists is the ability to drag-and-
drop items between lists. This lets you control the content of the lists so
thatyourtradingworldcanstayorganized.
Forexample,assumeyouhadthreewatchlistssetup.Onewasnamed
Candidates Long (which had stocks you were seriously considering buy-
ing), another was named Current Long Positions (which had the stocks
youactuallyowned),andanotherwasnamedStocksIFollow(whichwas
everythingelse,neitherownednorbeingconsideredforpurchase).
Being able to drag-and-drop between these lists is clearly valuable,
since what belongs in these lists changes over time. If Apple Computer
(symbol AAPL) was in your Stocks I Follow list, and you were seriously
consideringbuyingit,youwoulddragittotheCandidatesLonglist.Later,

P1:OTA
c03 JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 9:28 Printer:Yettocome
ModulesandPreferences 51
FIGURE 3.8 Thefourdifferentkindsofarrowsatthebottomofamoduleletyou
easilymovethecontentsofalistupanddownwithinthatmodule.
if and when you actually bought some of this stock, you would drag it to
theCurrentLongPositionslist.
Themechanicsofdragginganddroppingwillbeaddressedinthischap-
ter,sinceitappliestoothermodulesaswell.AnotherhelpfulfeatureinMy
WatchLists,aswellasinmostothermodules,isthearrowsthatappearat
thebottomofthemodule.Thereisapairofup-arrowsandapairofdown-
arrowsontheleftandright,andasingleup-arrowanddown-arrowinthe
middle,asshowninFigure3.8.
Clickingthesearrowswhileinamodulewilldothefollowing:
(cid:1)
Double-UpArrow(keyboardequivalent:Ctrl-UpArrow):Willeithergo
to the previous tagged item in the current list or to the top of the list
if no item is tagged. A tagged item is one that shows up in boldface,
anditemsaretaggedbychoosing“Tag”whenright-clickingasymbol.
Ifyouareatthetopofalist,clickingthedouble-uparrowwillgotothe
lastiteminthepreviouslist,ifthereisone.
(cid:1)
Up Arrow (keyboard equivalent: Up Arrow): Will go to the previous
iteminthecurrentlist.Ifyouareatthetopofalistalready,itwillgo
tothelastiteminthepreviouslist.Forinstance,ifyouhavetwowatch
lists,“listone”and“listtwo,”andthecurrentselectionisthefirstitem
inlisttwo,thenclickingtheuparrowwouldselectthelastiteminlist
one,sincethatisthenextitem“above”yourcurrentlocation.
(cid:1)
DownArrow(keyboardequivalent:DownArrow):Movesdowntothe
nextiteminthecurrentlist.Ifyouareatthebottomofalist,andan-
otherlistfollows,itwillopenupthenextlistandchoosethefirstitem
onthatlist.
(cid:1)
Double-Down Arrow(keyboardequivalent:Ctrl-DownArrow):Moves
down to the next tagged item on the current list or, if there is none,
moves to the bottom of the current list. If you are at the bottom
of a list and another list follows, it will go to the first item in the
subsequentlist.
Thearrowsetsprovideaquickandeasywayofnavigatingwithinlists,
particularlylongones.Thesearrowsareespeciallyusefulifyoumakeuse
of tagging symbols. For instance, you may have a list of 200 stocks you
follow,butonly20ofthemareofgreatinterestandarethereforetagged.
Beingabletoclickthroughthislist-within-a-listisagreattime-saver.

P1:OTA
c03 JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 9:28 Printer:Yettocome
52 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
My Portfolios
IfyoumanageyourportfoliosonInvestorToolboxorProphet.net,thein-
formationyouenterisautomaticallyavailableinProphetChartsviatheMy
Portfolios module. Within this module will be displayed the names of all
theportfoliosyouhavecreated,aswellastheircontents.
Byopeninganysingleportfolio,youcanseethesymbol,quantity,and
entry price of each item within that portfolio. For instance, if you bought
700 shares of Apple Computer at a price of $72.63, there would be a line
item reading “AAPL 700 @ $72.63” underneath the name of the portfolio
containingthatentry.
Deeperinformation,suchasprofitsandlossesandnetchanges,isnot
displayed here, since that information is more appropriate to the Market-
MatrixorPortfoliopages.Thismoduleprovidesyouaviewintoyourhold-
ingswithasingleglance,whichsavesyouthetroubleofhavingtoreferto
adifferentpage.
My Study Sets
A study set is a collection of one or more technical studies that work to-
gether. For instance, you might have put together a series of three differ-
entmovingaverages(15-day,50-day,and100-day)plusaMACDstudyand
calledthisthe“BullishBreakout”studyset.Thisnamewouldappearinthe
listofyourstudysetsforeasyaccess.Creatingandnamingstudysetswill
beaddressedinChapter7.
ThemodulenamedMyStudySetsissimplythat—alistofyourstudy
sets that you can double-click to apply to the current chart (and any sub-
sequent symbols you may enter). You can also right-click on any particu-
lar study set name to choose “Use this Study Set” (which is the same as
double-clicking)or“DeletethisStudySet.”Figure3.9showsanexampleof
FIGURE 3.9 My Study Sets shows the names of the technical study sets you
have created. When you first start using ProphetCharts, this will be an empty
module.

P1:OTA
c03 JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 9:28 Printer:Yettocome
ModulesandPreferences 53
the expanded module showing four study sets. When you first start using
ProphetCharts,thismodulewillhavenothinginit.
My Chart Styles
This module is as easy to understand as My Study Sets, because it is a
simple list of customized objects you have created and can access with a
double-clickofthemouse.Inthismoduleareyourchartstyles.(Thesub-
jectofcreatingchartstyleswillbecoveredinChapter4.)
A chart style is a collection of properties that define the appearance
andsettingsofachart.Forexample,supposeyoucreatedachartthathad
a duration of 10 days, a frequency of 1 minute, had no volume displayed,
hadstreamingdata,andusedthecandlestickstyleofgraph.Itwouldtake
you time to get this style of chart again later unless you preserved all of
thesesettingsintoachartstyle.Youcouldsavealloftheseproperties(and
therecouldbemanymore,forthisisjustaneasyexample)andnamethem
asachartstyle.
My Chart Styles displays, in alphabetical order, all of the chart styles
you have created. As with the study sets, when you first start using
ProphetCharts, this module will be empty. But, as in Figure 3.10, you can
createasmanyusefulstylesasyoulike.
Thisalsohelpsillustratewhyit’simportanttogivemeaningfulnames
toeachstyleandtonametheminsuchawaythattheyarewellordered.If
some of the names inthe figure were “Ten-Year Daily” and “5-Year Daily”
and“10-MinuteGraph”and“SingleDayStreaming,”thelistwouldbemore
jumbled,anditwouldbehardertolocatethestyleyoureallywanted.
Chart Toppers
Theonemodulewithconstantlychangingliststhroughoutanytradingday
isChartToppers.Thisisnotalistthatyouconstruct.Instead,itisalive,up-
to-datereportofthesecuritiesthataretradingandaredoingextraordinary
things; each list contains 10 stocks. This chart module provides live scan
resultson:
(cid:1)
PercentGainers:stockspricedhigherthan$1thatareupthemostfor
thepresentday(or,ifyouarelookingatthechartmoduleonaweek-
endorholiday,themostrecenttradingday)onapercentagebasis.
(cid:1)
DollarGainers:stockspricedathigherthan$1thatareupthemostin
absolutedollartermsforthepresentday.
(cid:1)
New52-WeekHighs:stocksthatduringthepresentdayreachedaprice
higherthananypreviousclosingpriceforthepastyear.

P1:OTA
c03 JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 9:28 Printer:Yettocome
54 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
FIGURE 3.10 The Chart Styles module gives you quick access to all the cus-
tomizedcollectionsofparametersthatcontroltheappearanceofachart.
(cid:1)
New52-WeekLows:stocksthatduringthepresentdayreachedaprice
lowerthananypreviousclosingpriceforthepastyear.
(cid:1)
Dollar Losers:stockspricedathigherthan$1thataredownthemost
inabsolutedollartermsforthepresentday.
(cid:1)
PercentLosers:stockspricedathigherthan$1thataredownthemost
forthepresentdayonapercentagebasis.
(cid:1)
Most Active: the most actively traded stocks, measured by share
volume.
As you can see in Figure 3.11, the Chart Toppers module covers the
threeU.S.stockexchanges:NYSE(NewYorkStockExchange),NASDAQ,
and AMEX (American Stock Exchange). Each of these has its own set of
sevenlive-scanresults.
WhenyouopentheChartToppersmodulefortheveryfirsttime,only
the exchange abbreviations will appear. Clicking the plus sign (+) will

P1:OTA
c03 JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 9:28 Printer:Yettocome
ModulesandPreferences 55
FIGURE 3.11 AllthreemajorU.S.ex- FIGURE 3.12 You can click on any
changes are represented in the Chart plus sign to see the detailed results of
Toppersmodule. thescanforthatparticularexchange.
reveal the seven scan lists beneath that exchange. You can then click the
plussignforanyparticularlisttoseetheindividualstockcomponents.In
Figure 3.12, the 10 symbols that are making new yearly highs on the
AmericanStockExchangeareshown.
You can right-click on any stock symbol to add it to a watch list.
Because the markets move through the day, these lists in turn change
throughout the day. Looking at the Chart Toppers module is not only a

P1:OTA
c03 JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 9:28 Printer:Yettocome
56 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
way to discover where theaction is but is also a great way of uncovering
highlydynamicstocksthatyoumightnotyetbefollowing.
Futures
Therearehundredsoffuturescontractsavailableatanyonetime,andre-
memberingthecomplexsymbolsbehindthemcanbeverydifficult.Thefu-
turesmoduleneatlyorganizesallthefuturesmarkets,aswellasthemonths
forwhichcontractsareavailable,intoathree-tierhierarchy.
Thefirsttierarethegeneralkindsoffutures,whichare:
+E-Minis
+Currencies
+Energy
+Indices
+InterestRates
+Grains
+Livestock
+Metals
Whenyouclickonanyofthesecategories,youwillseeallthemonths
and years for which contracts are available for the markets that reside
within these categories. The month-year combinations will be only for
those contracts that have not yet expired. In other words, even though
the database of futures extends back to the 1950s, you will only see, in
chronological order, the months and years that have not gone by yet. So
themonth-yearcombinationsdisplayedarethesecondtierofthismodule.
The third and final tier is the markets themselves (such as pork bel-
lies,silver,wheat,andthelike).Byclickingonaparticularmonth(suchas
March2011),youwillseeallthemarketsforwhichcontractsareavailable
on that given month. Double-clicking on one of these contracts will fetch
thedataforthatchart.
Indices
Having an understanding of where the broad market is, and where you
think it might be going, is vital to good investing. There are many hun-
dreds of different indices and indicators available, but only a relatively
smallnumberarewidelyfollowed.
Manyofthesearehouseholdnames(suchastheDowJonesIndustrial
Average), but the symbols that represent some of them are not easy to
remember (such as $XMI, $COMPQ, and $NDX). ProphetCharts provides
a quick way to access any of the most popular with the Indices module

P1:OTA
c03 JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 9:28 Printer:Yettocome
ModulesandPreferences 57
FIGURE 3.13 YoucanhaveeasyaccesstothechartofanymajorU.S.indexwith
theIndicesmodule.
(see Figure 3.13). You can double-click on any of the items in the list (or
drag-and-drop the item from the list into the chart area) to get access to
thatindex.
Technical Studies
ProphetChartshasalmost200differenttechnicalstudiesyoucanapplyto
pricedata.Thesestudiesarecoveredlaterinthebook,butfornowallyou
needtoknowisthatyoucanaccessanyofthemfromtheTechnicalStudies
module.
When you expand this module, all of the studies are displayed in al-
phabetical order, as shown in Figure 3.14. You can double-click on any
study to apply it to the price chart (or drag-and-drop it onto the chart).
Once a study is applied to a chart, any other symbols you enter will have
thesamestudy.Ifyoudouble-clickanotherstudy,itwillreplacethestudy
currently being used. (You will learn how to apply multiple studies in
Chapter7.)
Breakout Studies
This module contains seven predefined study sets. They are called break-
outstudiesbecausethearrowsindicatingwhenastudyhasbrokenabove
or below a signal area are present (green up-arrow for upward breakout;
red down-arrow for downward breakout). As with Technical Studies, any
ofthefollowingsevenstudiescanbe appliedbydouble-clickingthename

P1:OTA
c03 JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 9:28 Printer:Yettocome
58 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
FIGURE 3.14 There are nearly 200 FIGURE 3.15 The Quick Toggles
different technical studies available in module gives you one-click access to
ProphetCharts,anyoneofwhichisavail- turnsettingsonoroff.
ableintheTechnicalStudiesmodule.
orbydragginganddroppingitintothepricechart.
1. CCIwithBreakoutSignals.
2. EMAwithBreakoutSignals.
3. MAwithBreakoutSignals.
4. MACDHist.withBreakoutSignals.
5. MomentumwithBreakoutSignals.
6. RSI,WilderwithBreakoutSignals.
7. StochasticswithBreakoutSignals.
Quick Toggles
The next module on the list is Quick Toggles. A toggle is sort of like an
on-offswitch.Inthiscase,therearefivedifferentitemsthatcanbetoggled
onoroffbycheckingabox(Figure3.15).Thesefiveitemsare:
1. Color Bars:Whenchecked,thismakesallofthepricebarsrepresent-
ingdownwardmovementinpriceturnred,aswellasthecorrespond-
ingvolumebars.

P1:OTA
c03 JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 9:28 Printer:Yettocome
ModulesandPreferences 59
2. Hide Expansion: In Chapter 9, you will learn about expanding the
white space in a chart in order to give you more room on the time
axis(totherightofthechart)andthepriceaxis(aboveandbelowthe
chart).Whenthisitemischecked,anyexpansionyouhavedonewith
theexpansiontoolissuppressed,thusyieldinganormalchartwithout
any extra white space. Unchecking the box puts the chart back into
expandedmode.Ctrl-Fyieldsthesameresult.
3. HideDrawnItems:Whenchecked,thiswillhideallofthetrendlines,
Fibonaccistudies,highlights,andotheritemsdrawnwiththetoolbar.
ThisitemissimilartoHideStudiesinthesensethatyoucantemporar-
ilycleanupachartofembellishmentsandjustlookattheprices.You
canuseCtrl-Dforthesameresults.
4. HideEvents:Whenchecked,thiswillhideanycorporateevents,such
as stock splits, dividends, conference calls, and earnings announce-
ments.YoucanuseCtrl-Eforthesameresult.
5. HideGridLines:Normally,ProphetChartsdisplaysthefamiliarCarte-
sian coordinate grid of horizontal lines and vertical lines that are on
most charting programs. You may want to eliminate these lines for a
cleaner, simpler chart, which you can do with this checkbox or the
keyboardequivalent,Ctrl-G.
6. Hide Studies: When checked, any of the technical studies being dis-
playedwilldisappear.Checkingthisonandoffisaquickwayofseeing
thepurepricecharttemporarilyifyouareusingtechnicalstudies.You
canuseCtrl-Sforthesameeffect.
7. Hide Volume: When checked, this toggle will eliminate the volume
graph.Thisfreesupmoreroomforthepricechart,andifyou’relook-
ing at a chart that doesn’t have volume data (or you simply aren’t in-
terestedinexaminingthevolumeatthattime),youshouldcheckthis
box.YoucanuseCtrl-Spaceforthesameeffect.
Option Controls
Ifyoutradeoptions,youwillprobablyfindthismoduleextremelyhelpful.
Initarefour checkboxes that offeroptions charting features that aredif-
ficult orimpossible tofind anywhere else. The fourcheckboxes and their
functionsare:
1. Avg. Imp. Volatility: Clicking this on will plot on a new graph pane
(beneath the price pane) the average implied volatility for a stock
graph. This data begins February 2005 and works only with stock
charts.

P1:OTA
c03 JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 9:28 Printer:Yettocome
60 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
2. Bid-AskOverlay:Mostoptionsareextremelythinlytraded.Thismeans
that99.9percentofoptionschartsarevirtuallyunreadable,sincethey
typically consist of just a few lines here and there. However, the bid
price and ask price within these options markets do change, even if
there is no trading, and the ProphetCharts servers store the bid and
askinformationatthecloseofeverydayforeveryoption.Thismeans
that a meaningful graph, showing the true market motion of an op-
tion irrespective of its popularity, is possible. Checking the Bid-Ask
Overlay box will leave the price data on the chart, but it will also
overlay two line graphs (the upper one being ask, the lower one be-
ing bid) so you can see what the market was actually doing during
this time span. This feature works only when you are viewing an
optionchart.
3. Compare with Stock: Checking this (when viewing an option graph)
willautomaticallyloadtheunderlyingstockcorrespondingtothisop-
tionandplotitonitsowndistinctaxis.Thestockaxiswillbeontheleft
sideofthescreen(toindicateprice),andtheoptionpriceaxiswillbe
ontherightside.Thisisanoutstandingwayofviewinghowastock’s
price movement affects an option, since the widely disparate prices
of these two instruments are reconciled by providing an independent
priceaxisforeach.
4. ImpliedVolatility:Thischeckboxwillworkonlyforanoptiongraph.
Turning this checkbox on will plot an implied volatility for an option
inaseparatepane.
PREFERENCES IN PROPHETCHARTS
The last item in the Chart Settings menu in ProphetCharts is called Pref-
erences. This is probably not something you will access very often, but it
hassomeimportantfeaturesthatyoumayfindhelpful,someofwhichare
directlyrelatedtomodules.Figure3.16showsthedialogboxthatappears
whenyouchoosethisitem,andthefollowingsectionsdescribeeachpart
ofthepreferences.
Appearance
This portion of Preferences controls four different elements. Let’s take a
closelookatthissectiontounderstandeachone.SeeFigure3.17.
The Font Size dropdown menu lets you choose between Small,
Medium, and Large Fonts. The default is Small Fonts, but you may find
it difficult to read the characters on the chart, such as the data line, the

P1:OTA
c03 JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 9:28 Printer:Yettocome
ModulesandPreferences 61
FIGURE 3.16 TherearemanydifferentpreferencesyoucansetinProphetCharts.
Thesewillberetainedinyouraccountsoyoudon’thavetosetthemeachtimeyou
usetheprogram.
FIGURE 3.17 YoucancontrolthegeneralappearanceofProphetChartswiththe
appearanceportionofthePreferencessection.

P1:OTA
c03 JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 9:28 Printer:Yettocome
62 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
quote panel, and the contents of the other modules. You can make all of
thiseasiertoreadwithalargerfontsetting.
The Theme is the color scheme used by ProphetCharts. You can
choose a different theme to change the colors used within the program.
Youshouldtryeachofthethemessoyoucanselectwhateveriseasiestfor
youtoreadandmostpleasingtotheeye.
StudyColorsletsyouapplyacolorschemeonlytothetechnicalstud-
ies (if any) present on a chart. The choices as of this writing are Bright,
Earth,andSoft.Whichthemeyouchooseisstrictlyanaestheticpreference
andwillnototherwiseaffectthechart.
Guide Line Opacity controls how heavy the guide lines (that is, the
vertical and horizontal lines that follow the cursor around) are. You can
clicktheupanddownarrowstomovethisfigureanywherefromaslowas
0.1(thelineswillbevirtuallyinvisible)to1.0(thelineswillbesolid).Here
youcanbalancethetrade-offbetweenplainlyvisibleguidelinesagainstthe
visualnoisetheycreateforyouwhileexaminingachart.
Drawing
There are two checkboxes here, each of which is extremely important to
thebehavioroftheprogram.SeeFigure3.18.
“Snap to OHLC values during drawing” will, when checked, make
drawnobjectssnapsothatdrawingaccurateobjectsismucheasier.Each
pricebaronacharthasanopen,high,low,andcloseprice(OHLC).Ifthis
is not checked, as you are trying to put a drawn object on the chart, the
programwillletyoufreelypickanypixelonthescreen.
However, it’s most likely that you want to place the end point of the
drawn object on a specific part of the price bar (most typically the high
or low price). Checking this feature frees you from needing surgeon’s
hands to accurately place a drawn object on the price bars. It is usu-
ally a wise idea to have this item checked, particularly if you do a lot of
drawing.
FIGURE 3.18 Youwillprobablywanttohavebothoftheseboxeschecked,since
theymakeusingdrawnobjectsmucheasierintheprogram.

P1:OTA
c03 JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 9:28 Printer:Yettocome
ModulesandPreferences 63
“ReverttoPointerafterdrawing”controlsthebehaviorofthetoolbar.
If this is not checked, the tool bar will be in what is known as a persis-
tentmode.Inthismode,onceyouhaveselectedanobject,thatobjectwill
remainselecteduntilyouchooseanotherone.
Inpersistentmode,ifyouselecttheTrendLinetool,thattoolwillre-
mainselecteduntilyouchoosesomethingelse.Soeverytimeyougotothe
chart and click the mouse, a new trend line will be created. If you intend
todrawalotoftrendlines(oranyotherparticularobject),thispersistent
modeishandy.
Typically,sinceyou’llwanttoreverttothepointermodeafteryouhave
drawnanobject,you’llwantthischeckboxchecked.Mostofthetimeyou
willwanttodrawasingleitem(suchasatrendline)andthenbeinaposi-
tiontozoominorperformsomeothercursor-relatedfunction,asopposed
todrawingasuccessionofnewobjects.
Italicize Items Appearing in More Than One
Watch List
Dependingonhowyouorganizeyourwatchlists,youmightwanttoknow
ifthereareanyduplicatesamongthecontentsofyourlists.Forexample,
supposeyouhadoneverylargelistcalledCoreList,anothercalledShort
Positions, and another called Long Positions. Further suppose you only
wantedasymboltobeinanyoneofthesethreelistsatanygiventime.
If the lists are large, it is difficult to keep track, but if you mark
the checkbox to Italicize Items Appearing in More Than One Watch list,
ProphetChartswilldojustthat—putanysymbolsthatarenotuniquetoa
Watchlistinitalics.Thiswillhelpyouspotsymbolsappearinginmultiple
places.
Enable Warnings
Ifchecked,thiswillinstructProphetChartstoprovidewarningsaboutcer-
tainfunctionsintheprogram,suchasthedeletionofanitemfromawatch
list. Warnings are helpful when you are first starting to use the program
sothatyouhaveachancetothinkaboutwhatyouaregoingtodobefore
committingtoit.Asyougainexpertiseintheprogram,however,youmay
notwanttowastetimereadingthesewarnings,andcheckingthisboxwill
suppressthemaltogether.
Show Item Counts
If you mark this checkbox, a sum total of the symbols in each Watch list
willappearnexttothenameofeachWatchlist.Soifyouhave157symbols

P1:OTA
c03 JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 9:28 Printer:Yettocome
64 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
intheWatchlistcalledFocus,thenthelistnamewillappearasFocus(157)
intheWatchListsmodule.Keepingacountishandyformanyreasons;for
instance, if you wanted to track all the components of the S&P 100, it is
helpful to have a checksum next to the watch list you create so that you
knowthereareindeed100symbolshousedinthatlistandthatyouhaven’t
missedanywhenenteringthem.
Time Zone
Time is displayed in two different places on a chart—one is in the Quote
module, and another is on the x-axis of the chart when intraday data are
beingdisplayed(and,inturn,onthedatalineasyoumovethecursorleft
and right). Normally, the time used in these places is based on the local
time of the exchange where the security is traded. If you are looking at a
chart of IBM, which trades on the New York Stock Exchange, the times
shown will be in Eastern (meaning the market opens at 9:30 A.M. and
closesat4:00P.M.).
PerhapsyouliveinSanFrancisco.Fromyourpointofview,themarket
opensat6:30A.M.andclosesat1:00P.M.Youcanchooseyourtimezonein
Preferences so that you don’t have to do a mental conversion of the time
when you look at it. Just choose an appropriate time zone from the list
provided.
As you can see in Figure 3.19, there are a lot of time zone options in
Preferences.Onceyouaresatisfiedwithyourchoices,clicktheOKbutton
toapplyyourchanges(orCancelifyouwantthemallignored).
One final point is that you can also use the Other menu in
ProphetChartsasashortcuttochangingthefontsize,colortheme,orline
colorsetting,asshowninFigure3.20.
FIGURE 3.19 Ifyouwanttosetthetimeshownfortradingeventstobethesame
asyourlocaltime,youcandosohere.

P1:OTA
c03 JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 9:28 Printer:Yettocome
ModulesandPreferences 65
FIGURE 3.20 AshortcuttosomeoftheappearancecontrolsinProphetChartsis
availablefromtheOthermenuatthetopoftheprogram’sscreen.
DRAGGING AND DROPPING
Because ProphetCharts uses the latest Java technology, it has access to
themostsophisticateduserinterfacefeatures.Oneoftheseistheabilityto
drag-and-dropitemsfromplacetoplace.
As an illustration of what a time-saver this is, you could com-
pare the method of moving a stock from one watch list to another in
JavaCharts (which was ProphetCharts’ predecessor) to the current prod-
uct.InJavaCharts,youwouldneedto:
1. Right-clickonthesymbolyouwanttomove.
2. Choosethemenuitem“MovetoWatchList.”
3. Adialogboxofavailablewatchlistswillappear.
4. YouchooseawatchlistfromthedropdownandclickOK.
Withdrag-and-drop,yousimplyclickonthesymbolyouwanttomove
and drag it to its destination. As you do this, a faint ghost of what you
aredraggingappearssoyoucaneasilytellwhatyouaredoing.Inthisex-
ample (Figure 3.21), the stock Affiliated Managers Grp is being dragged
fromtheCurrentOptionswatchlistuptotheCandidateOptionslist.
Youcanalsodraganysecurityfromanymodule(notjustwatchlists)
onto the chart area to automatically load that symbol. This is often eas-
ier than manually typing in the stock symbol (which you might not even

P1:OTA
c03 JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 9:28 Printer:Yettocome
66 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
FIGURE 3.21 Movinganitemfromonewatchlisttoanotherissimplyamatter
ofdraggingitfromplacetoplace.
know).Again,aghostimageshowsinthepricechartareauntilyourelease
themousebutton,causingthenewcharttoload.SeeFigure3.22.
RIGHT-CLICKING FOR MORE ACTIONS
One last aspect of the modules section is that you can access other func-
tions by right-clicking on the item inside most of the module lists. These
functionsvarybymodule,sohereisasnapshotofsomeofthem.
Ifyoustorestudysets,thenamesofthosesetsareintheMyStudySets
module (see Figure 3.23). Right-clicking on any of these names gives you
threechoices:(1)UseThisStudySet,whichwillapplythatsettothecur-
rentchart;(2)DeleteThisStudySet,which,afterconfirmation,willremove
itfromyoursettings;and(3)RenameThisStudySet,whichwillpresenta
dialogboxinwhichyoucanrenameanyofthestudysetsasyouwish.
FIGURE 3.22 Whenyoudraganitemfromawatchlistintothechartarea,itwill
automaticallychartthatitemforyouonceyoureleasethemousebutton.

P1:OTA
c03 JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 9:28 Printer:Yettocome
ModulesandPreferences 67
FIGURE 3.23 Right-click on any FIGURE 3.24 Right-clicking on a
studysettoapply,delete,orrenameit. symbolfromChartToppersletsyouadd
ittoanyofyourwatchlists.
Chart toppers gives you access to all the unusual trading activity on
thevariousexchanges,suchasnewhighsandlows,biggestdollargainers
andlosers,mostactivesecurities,andsoforth,allpartitionedbyexchange.
Goingthroughthelistsinthismodule,especiallyondayswhenthemarket
ismakingamajormove,willusuallyyieldatleastafewinterestingsymbols
you would like to add to a watch list. A quick way to do this is to right-
clickonthesymbol,suchasinFigure3.24,andchooseAddtoWatchList,
whichwillprovideyoualistofyourlistssoyoumayclicktheappropriate
recipient.
MyChartStyles,showninFigure3.25,hasofferingssimilartoMyStudy
Sets when you right-click on its content. That is, you can Use, Delete, or
Renamewhateverchartstyleonwhichyouright-click.Ifyouhavewarning
messagesactivated,ProphetChartswillconfirmwhetheryou’resureabout
deletinganything.
Thelongestright-clicklistiswithinMyWatchLists(Figure3.26).The
choicesgivenare:
(cid:1)
CopytoList:Letsyoutakeastockandcopyittoanotherlistwhileat
thesametimeleavingitinitscurrentlist.Whenyouselectthis,adialog
box of available watch lists appears. You can choose the destination
fortheselectedsymbolfromthislist.

P1:OTA
c03 JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 9:28 Printer:Yettocome
68 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
FIGURE 3.25 The chart styles mod- FIGURE 3.26 Right-clicking an item
ule gives you a quick way to apply or inawatchlistprovidesavarietyoffunc-
delete a chart style if you right-click on tions,includingtheabilitytocopy,move,
anyexistingstyle. delete,ortagtheitem.
(cid:1)
Move to List: This is like Copy to List, except that the stock is re-
movedfromitscurrentlist.Thisisidenticalinoutcometodraggingand
dropping.
(cid:1)
Delete:Removesthesymbolfromthelist.
(cid:1)
Tag:Makesthesymbol(orcompanyname)boldfacesothatitstands
outfromtheothers.Thiscanbeaveryusefulfeatureifappliedprop-
erly.Taggingisawayofcallingoutcertainstockswithinalist.Ifyou
want to pay special attention to certain securities, you can tag them,
which not only makes them easier to discern because they are bold
butalsomakesnavigatingthewatchlistwiththearrowsmorepower-
fulsinceyoucanleapdirectlyfromtaggedsymboltotaggedsymbol.If
the symbol you are right-clicking is already tagged, this menu item is
RemoveTag.
(cid:1)
LabelsEditor:YouwilllearnaboutlabelsindetailinChapter16.This
item invokes the dialog box that lets you edit, add, and delete labels
forsymbols.

P1:OTA
c03 JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 9:28 Printer:Yettocome
ModulesandPreferences 69
(cid:1)
Appy Label Filters:Bringsupthedialogboxthatletsyourestrictthe
contentsofwatchlistsbasedonthelabelsoftheitemswithineachone.
(cid:1)
ApplyLabel:Letsyouchoosewhich,ifany,oftheavailablelabelsyou
wouldliketoapplytotheselectedsymbol.Labelsthatareselectedwill
haveacheckmarknexttothem.
You have learned a great deal about modules and preferences in this
chapter. You have learned how to exercise control over many aspects of
thechart’sappearanceandhowtousesomeofProphetChartsfeaturesto
makeapplyingthesecontrolsquickandeasy.Inthenextchapter,wewill
explore watch lists and chart styles to make using ProphetCharts more
efficient.

P1:OTA
c04 JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 9:31 Printer:Yettocome
C H A P T E R 4
Watch Lists and
Chart Styles
W
atch lists are a way of keeping your trading world organized. As
you become a more experienced trader, you will have a variety
of ideas about what to trade. Sometimes you will come across
a stock you are thinking about buying. Other times you will see stocks
you might want to short. Or you might want to start a list of companies
whose products you like, and another list of companies whose stock you
alreadyown.
No matter how you want to organize your trading ideas, the effective
useofwatchlistsisthebestwaytohandlethegoalinProphetCharts.And
thiscertainlydoesn’tmeanputtingallthestocksintoasinglegroupcalled
“My Watch List.” This chapter will show you the mechanics of managing
watchlists(aswellaschartstyles)andhowtousethemeffectively.
WATCH LIST BASICS
AtthetopofProphetChartsarethevariousmenus,oneofwhichisnamed
WatchLists.Withinitareallthecontrolsyouneedtomanageyourwatch
lists.Awatchlistisacompilationoffinancialinstrumentsthatyoucollec-
tively name and manage. You control what is inside the list, and you can
movethingstoandfromvariousliststokeepthemwellorganized.
You might not necessarily own the stocks in your watch lists. Some
watchlistsyoucreatemightbealongthefollowinglines:
CandidatesLong—Stocksyouareconsideringbuying.
CandidatesShort—Stocksyouareconsideringsellingshort.
70

P1:OTA
c04 JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 9:31 Printer:Yettocome
WatchListsandChartStyles 71
FIGURE 4.1 The Watch Lists menu provides all the basic controls needed for
WatchListmanagementandviewing.
CurrentLong—Stocksyoucurrentlyown.
CurrentShort—Stocksyoucurrentlyareshort.
CoreList—Themainlistofstocksyoutrackregularly.
HighFliers—Volatilestocks.
SteadyPerformers—Stable,steadilyrisingstocks.
The lists and their contents are really up to you. But the watch lists
should be given names that suggest their content, and they should be
uniqueenoughtobeuseful.
TheWatchListsmenu(Figure4.1)includessixchoices:
1. AddtoWatchList:Addthestockdisplayedinthecharttoawatchlist
ofyourchoice.
2. CreateNewWatchList:Createandnameanewwatchlist.
3. DeleteWatchList:Deletethewatchlistofyourchoiceanditscontents.
4. Apply Label Filters:ThistopicwillbecoveredthoroughlyinChapter
16,butthisfunctionbasesthecontentsofthewatchlistsonthefilters
youapply.
5. Delete Label: This topic also will be covered in Chapter 16, but this
functionletsyoudeletealabelyoupreviouslydefined.
6. View by Symbol: View all of the securities in the watch lists by their
tickersymbol.

P1:OTA
c04 JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 9:31 Printer:Yettocome
72 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
FIGURE 4.2 Whenaddingasymboltoawatchlist,youcanchoosefromanyof
thewatchlistsinthedropdownmenu.
7. View by Company Name: Viewallofthesecurities inthewatchlists
bytheircompanyname(thisisthedefaultchoice).
8. Import:Youcanimportatextfileofsymbolsintoawatchlistwiththis
function,whichcanbeabigtime-saver.Forinstance,let’ssayyoufind
alistofallthesymbolsintheS&P100ontheInternet.Youcouldsave
thatlistofsymbolstoyourharddriveandthenimportthattextfilevia
ProphetCharts’ import command, saving you the time and trouble of
enteringallthosesymbolsindividually.
WhenyouchooseAddtoWatchList,ProphetChartswilltakewhatever
symbolisdisplayedcurrentlyandaddittowhateverwatchlistyouselect.
Figure4.2showstheAddFavoritedialogbox,whichcontainsadropdown
menuofallyourwatchlists,sortedalphabetically.Choosethelisttowhich
youwantthesymboladdedandclickOKtofinishthetask.
Tocreateanewwatchlist,choose CreateNewWatchList,andenter
thenameyouwouldlikeittohave(Figure4.3).Remembertogiveitaname
that helps identify its contents, because once you have a large collection
oftheselists,youwillwantthemtobeeasytoorganize.Alsokeepinmind
thatyournewwatchlistwillbeemptyatfirst.
FIGURE 4.3 Typeinwhatevernameyouwouldliketogivethewatchlist,buttry
tomakeitsomethingthatdescribesthecontentsyouintendforthatlist.

P1:OTA
c04 JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 9:31 Printer:Yettocome
WatchListsandChartStyles 73
FIGURE 4.4 Deletingawatchlistpermanentlyremovesallthesymbolsandthe
watchlistname.ProphetChartswillconfirmyouwanttodeletealistbeforeactually
doingso.
Ifyoudecidetocompletelyeliminateawatchlistfromyouraccount,
choose Delete Watch List from the menu. A dropdown menu of all the
watchlistsavailable(Figure4.4)willbeshown.Choosetheoneyouwant
todeleteandclickOK.Becausethedeletionispermanent,ProphetCharts
will double-check with you to make sure you want to go ahead with the
deletion.Ifyouconfirmit,thewatchlistwillbegone.
MY WATCH LISTS
Although the Watch Lists menu is useful, you will probably find that the
MyWatchListsmoduleisamoreefficientplacetomanageyourlists.From
themoduleyoucanmoveitemsfromonelisttoanother,performdrag-and-
dropoperations,copyitemsfromplacetoplace,renamelists,andperform
manyotherfunctions.
WhenyouexpandMyWatchLists,allofyourwatchlistswillbeshown
in the state you last left them. The lists are shown in alphabetical order,
andyoucaneitherexpandthem(whichmeansthecontentsareshown,and
therewillbeaminussignnexttothelistname)orcollapsethem(meaning
onlythelistnamewillbeshown,andaplussignwillbenexttoit).
Figure 4.5 shows a portion of a hypothetical My Watch Lists. The list
called Candidates Long is expanded, and some of the company names in
that list are boldfaced, meaning they have been tagged. The list above it
(CandidateOptions)isempty,sothereisnoplusorminusnexttothelist
name.Thelistbeneathit(CandidatesShort)iscollapsed,sothereisaplus
signnexttoit.
IfyouweretochooseViewbySymbolfromtheWatchListsmenu,the
samelistwouldresembleFigure4.6.Notethatalthoughsymbolsareshown
insteadofcompanynames,taggeditemsstillappearinboldface.Notealso
thatalphabeticallysortedsymbolsmaynotnecessarilyappearinthesame

P1:OTA
c04 JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 9:31 Printer:Yettocome
74 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
FIGURE 4.5 This expanded watch FIGURE 4.6 This is the same list of
listshowsthestocksexpressedastheir securities shown in Figure 4.5, except
company name. Some of the securities theyaredisplayedbysymbolinsteadof
have been tagged, and they are dis- name.
playedinboldface.
order as alphabetically sorted names, since company names and symbols
donotalwayscorrespond(anexamplebeingsymbolT,whichcorresponds
tothecompanynameAT&T).
DRAGGING-AND-DROPPING
One of the most useful features in ProphetCharts is the ability to drag an
item from one watch list to another. This makes it quick, easy, and con-
venienttokeepyourwatchlistsorganizedasyoumovethingsfromplace
toplace.
Forinstance,assumeyouhadfivewatchlists—CandidatesLong,Can-
didates Short, Current Long, Current Short, and Favorite Stocks. Further
assume you were an active trader and were often examining stocks and

P1:OTA
c04 JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 9:31 Printer:Yettocome
WatchListsandChartStyles 75
FIGURE 4.7 ThisshowsthreetaggedsymbolsintheCandidatesShortmodule.
opening and closing positions. You can imagine how dynamic these lists
wouldbecome.Bybeingabletodragsymbolsfromonelisttoanotheras
their status changes, you would be able to keep your trading world orga-
nized.Soastockyouregularlyfollow(intheFavoriteStockslist)mightbe
movedtotheCandidatesShortlistifyouwereconsideringsellingitshort.
Andwhenyouactuallysoldthestockshort,youwouldmoveittoCurrent
Short.Finally,whenyoucoveredtheshort(hopefullyatalowerprice)you
wouldreturnittoitsregularhome,FavoriteStocks.
Dragging and dropping is as easy and direct as it sounds. Figure 4.7
shows a list of three tagged stocks in Candidates Short. Assume you
wantedtodragHarrah’sEntertainmenttotheCandidateOptionslist.
All you need do is point to Harrah’s Entertainment, hold down the
mouse button, and drag it to the Candidate Options list, as shown in
Figure4.8.ProphetChartsshowsalightghostofthecompanynameasyou
are dragging it so it’s easy to aim at your target (that is, the name of the
watchlisttowhichyouwanttodragthesymbol).
FIGURE 4.8 Inthiscase,thestockHarrah’sEntertainmentisbeingdraggedfrom
the Candidates Short watch list to the Candidate Options watch list. A light ghost
imagecanbeseenduringthedrag-and-dropoperation.

P1:OTA
c04 JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 9:31 Printer:Yettocome
76 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
FIGURE 4.9 Oncethedrag-and-dropiscomplete,thestockhasbeenmovedfrom
CandidatesShorttoCandidateOptions.Thequantityofstocksisstillthesame,but
theirarrangementisdifferent.
Afteryoureleasethemousebutton,thesymbolhasbeenmovedfrom
one place to another, as shown in Figure 4.9. You can also drag-and-drop
intothechartareaifyouwanttosimplychartasymbol.It’saccomplished
in exactly the same way: just click on the symbol you want to chart and
dragitintothechartarea.Unlikemovingasymbolfromonelisttoanother,
dragging-and-droppingforchartingwillnotremovethesymbolfromitslist.
RIGHT-CLICKING ON SYMBOLS
Besidesthemenuandthemodule,thereisathirdwayofmodifyingwatch
lists: right-clicking on a symbol within a list. If you do so, a variety of ac-
tionsforthatsymbolwillappear(Figure4.10):
CopytoList—Letsyouchooseanotherwatchlisttowhichyouwould
liketocopythissymbol.Unlikedrag-and-drop,thesymbolwillre-
maininboththeoriginallistandthedestinationlistoncetheaction
iscomplete.
Move to List—Similar to the drag-and-drop operation, this lets you
choose a destination watch list and will remove the symbol from
theoriginallistandinsertitintothedestinationlist.
Delete—Deletesthesymbolfromthewatchlist.
Tag—Makesthesymbolappearinboldsothatyoucanhighlightitas
asymboltowhichyouwanttopayspecialattention.
Labels Editor: The three labels-oriented items on this menu will be
discussed in Chapter 16; choosing this item brings up the labels
editordialogbox.

P1:OTA
c04 JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 9:31 Printer:Yettocome
WatchListsandChartStyles 77
FIGURE 4.10 Right-clickingastocknameinawatchlistbringsupamenuwith
avarietyofpossibleactions.
Apply Label Filters: Modifies which items in the watch lists are dis-
playedbyapplyingthelabelfiltersyouchoose.
Apply Label:Letsyouapplyaspecificlabeltothesymbolbeingright-
clicked.
The Tag menu item is unique since it renames itself if the symbol is
already tagged (Figure 4.11). In this case, the menu item is Remove Tag,
and clicking it will make the boldfaced stock change back to its normal
plainappearance.
Theright-clickmenuismostconvenientfordeletingandtaggingsym-
bols.Unlessyouwanttomakecopiesofsymbolsfromonelisttoanother,
usingdrag-and-dropbetweenlistsismuchfasterandmoreefficient.
Besidesright-clickingonanindividualsymbol,youcanalsoright-click
on a watch list and take any of the following actions, based on the menu
thatpopsup:
Rename Watch List—Lets you type in a new name for the selected
list.Youcanalsodouble-clickthelistnameandmakethechange
directly,withoutthemenu’shelp.

P1:OTA
c04 JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 9:31 Printer:Yettocome
78 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
FIGURE 4.11 Ifasymbolisalreadytagged,thenthemenuitemTagisinstead
calledRemoveTag.
CreateWatchList—Createsanew,emptywatchlist.
DeleteWatchList—Yieldsadialogboxshowingyoutheexistingwatch
lists,anyoneofwhichyoucandelete.
ExportWatchList—Letsyoutakethecontentsoftheselectedlistand
saveitintoatextfileonyourharddrive.
AddCurrentSymboltoWatchList—Addsthechartedsymbolintothe
selectedlist.
ViewinGrid—Gridchartsarecoveredlaterinthebook;thisdisplays
thefirstfourchartsinthelistinatwo-by-twogridformat.
TagAll—Tagsallthesymbolsinthelist.
UntagAll—Untagsallthesymbolsinthelist.
CopyAll—Letsyoucopyallofthesymbolsinthelisttoanotherlist.
Move All—Lets you move all the symbols from the current list to an-
otherlist,leavingtheoriginallistempty.
Labels Editor—Again,labelsfunctionswillbecoveredinChapter16;
thisbringsupthelabelseditor.
ApplyLabelFilters—Letsyouapplythelabelfilterstoallthelists.
Apply Label—Lets you apply a label to every symbol in the selected
list.
CHART STYLES
Chapter 2 explained the basics of chart creation. There are a great many
waysinProphetChartstoadjustachart’sappearancetoyourliking.Over

P1:OTA
c04 JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 9:31 Printer:Yettocome
WatchListsandChartStyles 79
time,youwillprobablyfindcertainkindsofchartsthatworkwellforyou.
You might like a six-month daily candlestick chart, a 10-day minute-by-
minutestreamingchart,ora10-yearweeklychart.
Changingtheparametersthatcontrolacharttogetadifferentviewof
asecurityistediousandtime-consuming.That’swhyProphetChartsallows
youtopreserveawidevarietyofsettingsintoachartstyle.Whenyoucre-
ateastyle,yougiveyourselfinstantaccesstowhateverpropertiesagiven
charthas,withouthavingtospendtimeadjustingmenus,checkboxes,and
othersettings.
Achartstylewillpreservejustabouteveryaspectofachart.Someof
thekeyparametersthatmakeupachartstyleare:
Graph Type—There are seven different kinds of graphs: OHLC, HLC,
HL,Candle,Line,Area,andPercent.Yourchartstylewillremem-
berwhichoftheseyouselected.
Quick Toggles—Arecolorbarsinthechart?Isvolumedisplayed?Are
drawnitemsshown?Arestudiesshown?
Streaming—Isthechartstreaming?
Log—Isthescaletypelogarithmicorarithmetic?
Duration—Whatisthedurationofthechart?
Frequency—Whatisthefrequencyofthechart?
TechnicalStudies—Whattechnicalstudies,ifany,areused?
You don’t have to do anything special to create a chart style except
createthechartyouwantandthensaveitasastyle.TheStylesmenu(Fig-
ure4.12)iswherethishappens;thetoptwochoicesletyousaveastyleor
deleteastyle,andbeneaththatareallthestylesyouhavecreated(ifany).
BesidestheStylesmenu,thechartstylesyou’vemadearealsolistedin
the My Chart Styles module (Figure 4.13). You can apply a style from the
menubyselectingit,andyoucanapplyastylefromthemodulebyeither
double-clickingitordragginganddroppingitintothechartarea.
CREATING AND SAVING A STYLE
Once you create a chart whose properties you want to preserve, choose
SaveSettingsasaChartStylefromtheStylesmenu.Adialogbox(Figure
4.14)willappear,askingyouwhatnametogivethestyle.
YoucaneithertypeinanameandclickOK,orifyouwanttoreplace
anexistingstylewiththepresentone,youcanclicktheUpdateanexisting
ChartStyleradiobuttonandchoosethestyleyouwanttoreplacefromthe
dropdownmenu(Figure4.15).

P1:OTA
c04 JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 9:31 Printer:Yettocome
80 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
FIGURE 4.12 All of the styles you FIGURE 4.13 The chart styles are
have created are in the Styles menu, alsolistedintheMyChartStylesmodule,
along with the ability to save or delete andanyonestylecanbeinvokedwitha
astyle. double-clickoradrag-and-dropintothe
chartarea.
It’simportanttoremembertogiveyourstyleameaningfulname.Don’t
usenameslikeStyle1,Style2,MyStyle,StockChart,andothermeaning-
lessterms.Instead,usedescriptivelanguagesuchasCandlestick6-Month,
Streaming10-Day,orDaily5-Year.
Another suggestion: because the style names appear in alphabetical
order, you should use consistent names to group similar styles. For in-
stance, if you have a few minute graphs (that is, intraday graphs), a few
dailygraphs(longerterm),andafewstreaminggraphs,youmightchoose

P1:OTA
c04 JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 9:31 Printer:Yettocome
WatchListsandChartStyles 81
FIGURE 4.14 The Save Chart Style FIGURE 4.15 To replace a chart
dialog box lets you save a new style or style, choose the style from the drop-
replaceanexistingstyle. downmenu.
style names such as Minute 5-Day, Minute 10-Day, Daily 2-Year, Daily
5-Year, Daily 10-Year, Streaming 2-Day, Streaming 5-Day, and Streaming
20-Day.Thatway,whenthestylenamesareshowninalphabeticalorder,it
willbeeasiertofindthestyleyouwant.
TRADING STYLE
A different kind of style has nothing to do with a software feature, but
insteadthisstyleisaboutdevelopingyourselfasatrader.Mybeliefisthat
learning how to trade is one of the richest processes of self-discovery a
personcanundertake,providedthatpersonishighlydedicatedtolearning
theartoftradingandhasenoughintrospectionandflexibilitytolearnand
grow.Formyself,theprocesshasbeenlong—measuredindecades—and
difficult,butIcansaywithconfidencethatIamalittlebitbetteratwhatI
dowitheachpassingyear.
Butinthecourseoftryingtolearntobeagoodtrader,youaregoing
toneedtoadoptyourownpersonalstyle.Bystyle,Idon’tmeanabromide
like “a trader who makes a lot of money” or, less glibly, “one who trades
what he sees.” I think those are empty characterizations, no better than
sayingyourphilosophyoflifeistotrytobeagoodpersonanddotheright
thing.

P1:OTA
c04 JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 9:31 Printer:Yettocome
82 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
Mypointofviewisthattradingstyleencompassesseveralareas:
(cid:1)
Quantity:Howmanymarketsand/orpositionsdoyouplantotrade?
One?Ahandful?Dozens?Hundreds?
(cid:1)
Basis: What will the basis of your decision be with respect to what
positionsyouwillundertake?
(cid:1)
Frequency: How often do you plan to enter and exit positions? In
otherwords,areyouadaytrader,aswingtrader,oraninvestor?
(cid:1)
Bias:Doyouhaveabullishorbearishbias?Ibelievethevastmajority
ofpeoplehaveabullishbias,inspiteoftheirdeclarationsofneutrality.
(Theoldsaw“ItradewhatIsee”isthesaferoute,similartoapolitical
stanceof“sociallyliberalandfiscallyconservative”—meaningless.)
(cid:1)
Security:Whatkindofsecuritiesdoyouliketotrade?E-minis?Penny
stocks?Bluechips?
I’m sure there are other elements, but that’s not a bad start. My own
personalstyleisalongtheselines:
(cid:1)
Quantity: I like a lot of small positions in order to spread my risk.
TherearetimeswhenIhaveacoupleofhundredpositions.
(cid:1)
Basis: I’m a chartist, pure and simple. I use my experience of having
viewed hundreds of thousands of charts as the rationale for my deci-
sionmaking.
(cid:1)
Frequency: My preference is holding periods measured in weeks or
months,althoughvolatilemarketscanmakethatunrealistic.
(cid:1)
Bias: I tend to be somewhat bearishly biased, although I am always
strivingtobeasbalancedandopen-mindedaboutchartsaspossible.
(cid:1)
Security: I gravitate toward stocks that trade at least half a million
sharesaday—hopefullymuchmore—andaretypicallypricedbetween
$20and$90.
Youmaynothaveadoptedastyleofyourownyet,buttheseparame-
ters are worthy of some thought. As you trade in the coming months and
years,returntothistopic,sincelearningtobeasuccessfultraderrequires
beinginaconstantstateofself-evaluationand,hopefully,improvement.
ON TO TECHNICAL STUDIES
You have learned about two vital features of ProphetCharts: the manage-
mentofwatchlistsandthecreationofchartstyles.Nowit’stimetobegin
exploringthepowerfullibraryoftechnicalstudiesatyourdisposal.

P1:OTA
c05 JWBT295-Knight May4,2010 7:48 Printer:Yettocome
C H A P T E R 5
Market and
Data Types
T
here are tens of thousands of financial instruments that
ProphetCharts can display, and it will help you as a trader to
understand what these instruments are and how they differ in a
chart. Although just about any kind of time series data can be charted,
therearesomesubtlebutimportantdifferencesbetweenthesedatatypes
thatwediscussinthischapter.
INDEXES
Anindexistypicallyanamalgamationofvariousinstrumentsthataresub-
ject to some kind of mathematical process to yield a meaningful number
(typically in the form of an average). Well-known examples include the
DowJonesIndustrialAverage(alsoknownastheDow30),theStandard&
Poor’s 500 (also known as the S&P 500 or simply the SPX), and the Gold
andSilverIndex.
Another similar chartable item is an indicator, which—instead of be-
ingcomputedusingindividualinstruments—ismoretypicallyanindepen-
dent summary of a fact, such as the number of stocks on an exchange
that rose on a particular day or the total number of shares that traded
on a particular exchange. For simplicity’s sake, we will refer to both in-
dexes and indicators as “indexes” since they are treated the same way in
ProphetCharts.
In ProphetCharts, index symbols are preceded by the dollar sign:
$INDUrepresentstheDow30,$UTILrepresentstheDow15UtilityIndex,
83

P1:OTA
c05 JWBT295-Knight May4,2010 7:48 Printer:Yettocome
84 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
FIGURE 5.1 Theindexmoduleprovideseasyaccesstopopularindexdata.
$NDXrepresentstheNASDAQ100Index,$HUIistheGoldBugsIndex,and
soforth.
There is an Index module built into ProphetCharts to make the task
ofaccessingindexessimplerthanmemorizingabunchofarcanesymbols.
If you choose to display the Index module, you will see the list shown in
Figure5.1.Double-clickinganyoftheseitemswillmakethatindexappear,
usingthetimedurationandfrequencyyouhaveselected.Someindexesgo
backforalongtime;theDowJonesIndustrialIndexgoesbackthefarthest,
withdatabacktothebeginningof1900.(Asanaside,weactuallyhaddata
from the nineteenth century, but Java cannot comprehend time prior to
1900,sowehadtoforgousingit).
As of this writing, the vast majority of indexes in ProphetCharts lack
volume data. There are a handful of exceptions, but on the whole, the
volume pane will be blank for any indexes (and all indicators). There are
someinstanceswhereProphetChartshasvolumedata,buttheybeginonly
later in the time series. Figure 5.2, for instance, shows the Dow Utility
Indexwithvolumedatacommencingearlyin2007.Beforethat,thevolume
isallzeros.
Looking at indexes in ProphetCharts should probably be a daily rou-
tine for active traders, since the movement of major indexes is a major
influenceonthedirectionofindividualequities.Youwillprobablywantto
createawatchlisttostoretheindexesyoumostfrequentlyexamine.
EQUITIES
Equities are most typically shares of common stock in public companies,
although for the purposes of our discussion, they include any instrument

P1:OTA
c05 JWBT295-Knight May4,2010 7:48 Printer:Yettocome
MarketandDataTypes 85
FIGURE 5.2 MostoftheindexdatainProphetChartshavenovolumedataoronly
partialdata.
that is traded on a stock exchange (including, for instance, Exchange-
TradedFunds,commonlyknownasETFs).
When people speak of equities, they are usually talking about stocks
such as Google (GOOG), Apple Inc (AAPL), Kelloggs (K), and Johnson &
Johnson (JNJ). They are also talking about funds such as the NASDAQ
100ETF(QQQQ),thegoldtrust(GLD),thesilvertrust(SLV),theS&P500
“spyders”(SPY),andotherpopulartradingvehicles.

P1:OTA
c05 JWBT295-Knight May4,2010 7:48 Printer:Yettocome
86 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
Symbols for equities range in length from one alphabetic character
(such as C, which stands for CitiCorp) to five characters. They typically
only have alphabetic characters (examples: HD, IBM, F, SHLD), although
forpreferredstocksandotherspecialissues,theremaybeothersymbols
(for instance, BRK.A for Warren Buffett’s Berkshire Hathaway). You can
usethesearchiteminthesymbolsmenutofindthesymbolofanysecurity.
Thedatafieldsforequitiesare:
Open—Theopeningprice(thatis,thefirsttradedprice)forthegiven
timeperiod(usuallyoneday,butinthecaseofintradaygraphsor
otherfrequencies,itwillbelongerorshorter)
High—Thehighestpriceforthattimeperiod
Low—Thelowestpriceforthattimeperiod
Close—Thelastpriceforthattimeperiod
Volume—Thetotalnumberofsharestradedduringthattimeperiod
SomethinguniquetoequitysymbolsinProphetChartsareeventicons,
whichareautomaticallydisplayedonthepricechart.Figure5.3showsan
example of a stock with many event icons. Mousing over any of these
will provide more information about the meaning of the event for that
stock.
Because active ProphetCharts users tend to be technical traders, the
event icons aren’t something that you will probably be using a lot. By
pressing Ctrl-E, you can toggle between showing and hiding the event
icons. However, there are times when it is helpful to have an awareness
ofevents—particularlymarket-movingeventssuchasearningsannounce-
ments.Thefourdifferentkindsofeventiconsdisplayedare:
Dividends—Thislookslikeanup-arrowanddenoteswhenadividend
ispaidanditsvalue.
Stock Splits—This looks like two overlapping squares and indicates
whenastockhassplitandbywhatamount.
Conference Calls—Thislookslikeatelephoneandindicatesaconfer-
encecallbetweenacompany’smanagementandstockanalysts.
Earnings Announcement—This looks like a dollar sign and shows
when a company’s quarterly earnings were (or will be)
announced.
An example of a dividend event is shown in Figure 5.4. Mousing over
this arrow icon shows that a 22-cent dividend was paid on September 22,
2005.Asyoucansee,therearefivedividendiconsinthisparticularexam-
ple, so the span of time displayed is about five quarters (since dividends
areusuallypaidonaquarterlybasis).

P1:OTA
c05 JWBT295-Knight May4,2010 7:48 Printer:Yettocome
MarketandDataTypes 87
FIGURE 5.3 Eventiconsareautomaticallydisplayedonequitycharts.
The stock split icon, shown in Figure 5.5, is placed on the date when
astocksplittookplace.Thisincludeshistoricalsplitsaswellasforthcom-
ing,announcedsplits.Mousingoverthisiconshowsthesplitamountand
date. A 2-for-1 split, for example, means that shareholders prior to that
date would, after that date, be holding twice as many shares as before
(whichareprobablyeachworthabouthalfwhattheywerebefore,exoge-
nouseventsnotwithstanding).

P1:OTA
c05 JWBT295-Knight May4,2010 7:48 Printer:Yettocome
88 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
FIGURE 5.4 Thedividendiconshowsthedateandamountofeachdividend.
The conference call event icon has a rather special feature, in that it
caninmanycasesprovideyoudirectaccesstotheaudioofthecallitself.
Ifrunningyourmouseovertheicontellsyouthedateandtimeofthecall
and says “Double-Click for More Info,” such as with Figure 5.6, you can
double-clicktheicontoactivateanaudioplaybackoftheconferencecall
itself.
Finally, the earnings report icon, shown with a dollar sign, indicates
thedatesofpriorandforthcomingearningsannouncements.Understand-
ably,theseeventiconsoftencorrelatewithmajorpricemoves,particularly
with highly volatile growth stocks. A positive surprise (or negative disap-
pointment) during an earnings report can create large gaps in a stock’s
pricemovement.Figure5.7showsastockwithalargenumberofearnings
icons(spacedaquarterapart),anyofwhichyieldsthedateoftheearnings
release.

P1:OTA
c05 JWBT295-Knight May4,2010 7:48 Printer:Yettocome
MarketandDataTypes 89
FIGURE 5.5 Here we see a 2-for-1 stock split for Yahoo! issued at the end of
theInternetbubble.Yahoo!has,understandably,nothadanystocksplitssincethat
time.

P1:OTA
c05 JWBT295-Knight May4,2010 7:48 Printer:Yettocome
90 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
FIGURE 5.6 Theconferencecalleventiconoftenprovidesaccesstotheaudioof
thecall.
MUTUAL FUNDS
Symbolsformutualfundsarefivealphabeticalcharacterslong(andthose
endingwithXXare,morespecifically,moneymarketfunds).Examplesin-
clude the well-known Fidelity Magellan Fund (FMAGX) and ultra index
funds,suchastheUltra-BearProFundsSmall-Cap(UCPIX).
Unlike stocks, which have open, high, low, close, and volume data
points,mutualfundshaveonlyonedatapointperday,theNetAssetValue
(NAV).Becauseofthis,whenyouchartamutualfund,youwillseeagraph
withonlyonesmalldashperday,suchasFigure5.8,whichcanbedifficult
toread.
Because of this, we advise using a line graph instead. Just go to the
Chart Settings menu, choose Graph Type, and then choose the line type

P1:OTA
c05 JWBT295-Knight May4,2010 7:48 Printer:Yettocome
MarketandDataTypes 91
FIGURE 5.7 Earnings announcements can often be accompanied by large price
moves.
of graph. This setting makes any mutual fund graph much easier to inter-
pret,asillustratedinFigure5.9.YoushouldalsonotethatfundNAVstyp-
icallyarenotavailableuntiltwohoursaftertheregularcloseofthestock
market.
Anotheraspectofmutualfundsisthattheyoftenexperiencedistribu-
tions, which are cash payments toparticipants inthe fund. The data plat-
formsupportingProphetChartsisratherspecialinthatitadjustsforthese
dividends.Mostchartingplatformsshowalargegapininstancesofdistri-
butions, which renders the chart much less useful. Failing to adjust for a
distributionisjustasbadasfailingtoadjustforastocksplit.ProphetCharts
appliesacoefficienttoalldataprecedingadistributionsothatthechartis

P1:OTA
c05 JWBT295-Knight May4,2010 7:48 Printer:Yettocome
92 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
FIGURE 5.8 Mutualfundsonlyhaveonedatapointperday,andnovolume.
FIGURE 5.9 Alinegraphisthebestchoiceforchartingmutualfunds.

P1:OTA
c05 JWBT295-Knight May4,2010 7:48 Printer:Yettocome
MarketandDataTypes 93
smoothed and adjusted, more accurately reflecting the true performance
andmovementofagivenfund.
FOREX
Theforeignexchange(FOREX)market,asismentionedinprobablyevery
advertisement that’s ever appeared for the industry, is the largest dollar-
volume market ontheplanet. Trillionsofdollarsof currencies aretraded
worldwideeveryday.
EvenifyouneverintendtotradeintheFOREXmarkets,youwillfind
thatabasicunderstandingofthesemarketswillbehelpfulinyourtrading
inotherrealms.Intermarketanalysishasvalue,andhavinganawarenessof
whattheeuro–U.S.dollarratioisdoingisimportantintheworldofmodern
trading.
A huge number of currency pairs are available in ProphetCharts, and
all of them are listed in the Currency Pairs module, shown in Figure
5.10. As with all the other modules, you can activate this module by go-
ing to the Chart Settings menu and choosing it from the list of modules
shown.
FIGURE 5.10 The Currency Pairs module provides easy access to dozens of
FOREXratios.

P1:OTA
c05 JWBT295-Knight May4,2010 7:48 Printer:Yettocome
94 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
FIGURE 5.11 TheEUR-USDisthemostwidelywatchedFOREXmarket.
Youcaneitherdouble-click,drag-and-drop,ormanuallytypeinanyof
thesecurrencypairstoseethechart.Thedataareavailableonbothadaily
and an intraday basis, and unlike equity markets, FOREX trades virtually
aroundtheclock(exceptweekends).
The most widely followed currency pair is the EUR-USD, shown in
Figure 5.11. The EUR-USD is a good way to get a glimpse of the relative
strengthofthedollartotheeuro(thehighertheprice,theweakerthedol-
laris, because thedollar isthedenominator inthisinstance). Other good
pairstofollowincludeNZD-USD,USD-CAD,andEUR-JPY.
As with e-mini futures, our next topic, streaming intraday FOREX
data give you a good sense in nonmarket hours what the next day might
hold. Events that take place after hours, particularly important economic
reports, have immediate reverberations in these markets, and you can
getanaccurateandtimelyassessment abouthowtheequitymarketswill
probably react to such news announcements long before regular trading
commences.
E-MINI FUTURES
Oneofthemostsuccessfulproducts—perhapsthemostsuccessful—ever
introducedbytheChicagoMercantileExchangeisthee-minifuture.These

P1:OTA
c05 JWBT295-Knight May4,2010 7:48 Printer:Yettocome
MarketandDataTypes 95
areelectronicallytradedalmostaroundtheclock,andtheycoverallkinds
ofdifferentmarkets,butfarandawaythemostpopularoftheseistheS&P
500e-mini,colloquiallyreferredtoastheES.
There are a number of advantages to this instrument. As stated, it is
electronic, and it trades almost 24 hours a day. It is a highly leveraged
product,soprofitpotential(andlosspotential!)issubstantial.Itprovides
anexcellentwayforthoseproficientatanticipatingindexmovestomake
moneydoingso.
The Futures module houses both the regular futures data and the e-
minidata.Youdonotneedtohavethismoduleopentoaccessthecharts,
but it makes it easier to see which contracts are available and to double-
click on the item of interest instead of having to enter an arcane symbol
such as @ESZ9. Figure 5.12 shows an example of an e-mini contract that
has been chosen from the module and whose chart is being shown in the
pricepane.
Looking closely at the various e-mini instruments available in the Fu-
turesmodule(Figure5.13),youcanseethatitcoversthegamutfromAsian
indexestosectorindexestocurrencyfutures.
Inadditiontothestandardpricedata(open,high,low,close,andvol-
ume),e-minifuturesalsocontainopeninterest,plottedasaredlinegraph
on top of the volume histogram. As with most futures, these markets are
extremely thinly traded until they become the so-called front month, as
showninFigure5.14.TheS&Pe-mini,forinstance,hasexpirationmonths
ofMarch,June,September,andDecember.SotheSeptembercontractfor
FIGURE 5.12 Thee-minifuturessymbolsarehousedintheFuturesmodule.

P1:OTA
c05 JWBT295-Knight May4,2010 7:48 Printer:Yettocome
96 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
FIGURE 5.13 Tochartaparticulare-mini,choosethemonthandthenthemarket
withinthatmonthfromthedropdownmenu.
FIGURE 5.14 Asshowninthevolumepane,thereisverylittletradinginafutures
contractuntilitbecomesthefrontmonth,atwhichtimevolumeandopeninterest
bothsurge.

P1:OTA
c05 JWBT295-Knight May4,2010 7:48 Printer:Yettocome
MarketandDataTypes 97
FIGURE 5.15 E-minifuturestradearoundtheclock,althoughmostofthevolume
isduringregularmarkethours.
agivenyearwouldtendtobeactivefromaboutthesecondweekofJune
untilthefirstweekofSeptember,athree-monthspan.
Asmentionedearlier,thee-minimarketstradeextendedhours.Inthe
caseoftheES(andtheimportantbutnotaspopularNASDAQequivalent,
the NQ), the trading is virtually constant, except for weekends. As you
canseeinFigure5.15,thevolumeduringtheeveningandnighttimeisex-
tremelythin,butitnonethelessprovidesvaluableinsightsandindications
astowhatthenexttradingdaywillbelike.
FUTURES AND COMMODITIES
Almost all ProphetCharts have access to the basic financial instruments,
such as U.S. stocks and indexes, mutual funds, and e-mini futures. Some
classes of data are available only to those who have signed up for cer-
tain exchange agreements. Your entitlements (based on the platform on
which you are using ProphetCharts) dictate whether the data you see is
delayed or real-time, or whether you can see a particular class of data
atall.

P1:OTA
c05 JWBT295-Knight May4,2010 7:48 Printer:Yettocome
98 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
FIGURE 5.16 TheFuturesmoduleorganizeshundredsofmarketsintoindustry-
orientedcategories.
Therefore,donotbeconcernedorconfusedif,bychance,youarenot
abletoviewfuturesoroptionsdata.Itmaysimplybethatyourparticular
platformdoesn’tpermityoutoseeit.Forthesakeofcompleteness,wewill
brieflydiscussthesedatatypesaswell.
Futuresandcommoditiesdata(whichwillbereferredtosimplyas“fu-
tures”here)covermarketsfromaroundtheworldinhundredsofdifferent
forms.Everything,fromporkbelliestoorangejuicetocrudeoil,istraded
onfuturesmarkets,andalthoughtherearemanymorestocktradersthan
futurestraders,theopportunitiesforprofitfromthehighlyleveragedworld
offutureshavecapturedtheimaginationofmanytraders.
Thefuturesmodule,showninFigure5.16,putsthehundredsofdiffer-
entindividualmarketsintoasector-basedhierarchy.Ifyouwantedtosee
whatwheatcontractswereavailable,forinstance,youcouldclickonthe
plussignnexttothewordGrains.Crudeoil,ontheotherhand,wouldbe
underEnergy,whileSilverwouldbeunderMetals.
The construction of a futures symbol tends to be in the format
<root><year><month>. For example, the June 2010 S&P 500 contract
wouldberepresentedasSP1006,sinceSPistherootsymbol,10istherel-
evantportionoftheyear2010,and06isthenumericrepresentationofthe
monthJune.
Futures contracts are ephemeral creatures, however. Most of them
last just two or three months. Therefore, ProphetCharts provides access
to synthetic futures contracts as well, more popularly known as continu-
ous contracts. These are individual futures contracts that are chained to-
gether so that you can get a longer-term view of a market’s direction. If
youwereinterested,forexample,inthewheatmarket,andyoulookedat

P1:OTA
c05 JWBT295-Knight May4,2010 7:48 Printer:Yettocome
MarketandDataTypes 99
FIGURE 5.17 The unadjusted contract shows many years of data chained
together.
onlyonespecificcontract,yourunderstandingofwheatwouldbeextraor-
dinarily limited. Looking at the continuous contract, however, you could
seewheat’spriceactionoveraperiodofhalfacentury.
There are a couple of styles of continuous contract: unadjusted and
adjusted. The unadjusted contract, as the name implies, chains the raw
contractstogether.Soiftherewerefourcontractsperyearforaparticular
market, then March would connect to June would connect to September
wouldconnecttoDecember,andsoforth.Theperiodoftimeinwhicheach
of these was the front month would also be the portion of time when the
pricedataforthatmarketwouldbepresentedinthecontinuouscontract.
Figure 5.17, for instance, shows the continuous unadjusted contract
for crude oil. The symbol for such a contract is the root symbol followed
bythenumber1600.Therefore,CL1600isthecontinuousunadjustedcon-
tract for crude, W1600 is for wheat, NG1600 is for natural gas, and so
forth.
Therearesomemarkets,however,inwhichthepricedifferencefrom
onecontracttothenextmightbesubstantial.Someagriculturalmarketsin
particularmighthavemonthsthatrepresentdifferentcropswhoseprices

P1:OTA
c05 JWBT295-Knight May4,2010 7:48 Printer:Yettocome
100 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
FIGURE 5.18 Unadjustedcontinuouscontractscanhavelargepricegaps.
are far apart, and chaining these contracts together would create many
misleadingpricegapsinthegraph.Therefore,ProphetChartsprovidesfor
adjusted contracts, which do a better job of merging such disparate data
togetherintoamoreusefulgraph.
Take natural gas, for example, shown in Figure 5.18. As you can see,
there are some very big price gaps, which usually come about when an-
othermonthtakesoverasthefrontmonth.
The same market adjusted for these irregularities, shown in
Figure5.19,ismuchsmoother.Adjustedgraphsarefarmoreusefulwhen
combinedwithstandardtechnicalstudiesanddrawnobjectsbecausethey
provideamorerealisticrepresentationastowhatthemarketisreallydo-
ing.Thesymbolfortheseisslightlydifferent:1700insteadof1600(exam-
ples:JO1700,HU1700,PB1700).
OPTIONS
Stock and index options have some very unusual symbology, but luckily
ProphetCharts has a helpful Wizard feature to make charting options a
snap.

P1:OTA
c05 JWBT295-Knight May4,2010 7:48 Printer:Yettocome
MarketandDataTypes 101
FIGURE 5.19 Insomemarkets,theadjustedversionofthecontractprovidesa
cleanerandmoreusefulrepresentationofthepriceaction.
ThefirstthingyouneedtodoischoosetheFindOptionitemfromthe
Symbols menu, which will reveal the Options Wizard dialog box, like the
oneinFigure5.20.ThewaytousethisWizardis:
1. Enter the underlying symbol. In the example shown here, the symbol
beingusedisIWM,whichistheexchange-tradedfundfortheRussell
2000index.
FIGURE 5.20 TheOptionsWizardgreatlysimplifiesthetaskoffindinganoption
chart.

P1:OTA
c05 JWBT295-Knight May4,2010 7:48 Printer:Yettocome
102 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
2. ClicktheSetbutton.Afteryoudo,ProphetChartswilltakeafewmo-
mentstoquerythepricedatabaseanddeterminealltheavailableexpi-
rationsandstrikeprices.Youwillseethesedropdownmenusbecome
availableoncethequeryiscompleted.
3. Next, choose what kind of option interests you—a Put (which is the
right to sell a given security at a given price) or a Call (which is the
righttobuyagivensecurityatagivenprice).
4. ThenchoosethemonthandyearexpirationfromtheExpirationdrop-
downmenu,aswellasthestrikepricefromtheStrikePricedropdown
menu.Youwilloftenfindalargenumberofstrikepricesavailable.
5. Finally, click on the Get Chart button, which will show you the daily
orintradaypricechart(dependingonwhatyou’veselectedintheFre-
quencyandDurationdropdowns).
FIGURE 5.21 Options tend to be thinly traded except for the last couple of
monthspriortotheirexpiration.

P1:OTA
c05 JWBT295-Knight May4,2010 7:48 Printer:Yettocome
MarketandDataTypes 103
AfteryouhaveclickedGetChart,youcanusetheWizardtofindother
options,oryoucanclickCanceltoclosetheWizard.Anexampleoptions
chart, the IWM $60 put for November 2009, is shown in Figure 5.21. As
is so often the case with options, trading is very light and spotty early in
thehistoryofthecontract,butastheexpirationdatenears,thepricebars
becomemoreregularandeasiertoread.
Aswithfuturescontracts,optionshaveopeninterest,whichisplotted
inthevolumepane.YoucanpressCtrl-Spacebartotogglevolumeandopen
interestonandoff,asillustratedinFigure5.22.
For the purpose of trading, an options chart isn’t particularly useful.
Notonlyisitshistoryquiteshortbutalsoonlythefinalcoupleofmonths
FIGURE 5.22 Openinterestisplottedforoptions,aswellasvolumedata.

P1:OTA
c05 JWBT295-Knight May4,2010 7:48 Printer:Yettocome
104 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
ofanoptionhaveenoughtradingactivitytocreateadecentgraph.Itisal-
mostalwaysmorevaluabletoexaminetheunderlyingsecurity(thatis,the
principalinstrumentonwhichtheoptionisbased)tomakeanassessment
astotheprobablefuturedirectionofasecurity.
OPTION CONTROLS
Thereisanothermoduleyoucanaccess—OptionControls—thatgivesyou
one-clickaccesstofourusefultoolswhenlookingatoptionscharts.These
fourcheckboxes,showninFigure5.23,are:
(cid:1)
Avg.Imp.Volatility(thatis,averagedimpliedvolatility).
(cid:1)
Bid-AskOverlay.
FIGURE 5.23 Use the Option Controls module for one-click access to more
options-orientedfunctions.

P1:OTA
c05 JWBT295-Knight May4,2010 7:48 Printer:Yettocome
MarketandDataTypes 105
(cid:1)
ComparewithStock.
(cid:1)
ImpliedVolatility.
AnunusualandinterestingfeatureistheBid-AskOverlay.Intheworld
ofoptionstrading,ahugemajorityofthetensofthousandsofoptionson
the market don’t trade every day. Those that do trade might trade just a
fewcontracts.
Becauseofthis,mostoptionshavelittleornotradingdata.Inagiven
week,maybeonlyonetradewilltakeplace.Sotheotherfourdaysofthat
weekhavenodataatall.ProphetChartshasanovelsolutiontothisprob-
lem. In the price data, the bid price and ask price are retained for every
singledayandeverysingleoption.Thatway,youcangetagoodsenseas
tothemarketforanoption,irrespectiveofitsactivity.
LookatFigure5.24,forinstance.Thisisanoptionwithverylittleactiv-
ity,whichiswhythepricecharthasjustaseriesoflittletickbarsandflat
lines.OncetheBid-AskOverlaycheckboxison,however,thepricechartis
muchmoremeaningful,becauseagreenlinechart(representingtheask)
and a blue line chart (representing the bid) are plotted, as illustrated in
Figure5.25.
Ofcourse,optionsarebasedonsomethingelse,sincetheyarederiva-
tiveinstruments.YoucanmakeuseoftheLeftAxisfunctionautomatically
with Option Controls, combining a given option with its underlying
FIGURE 5.24 Mostoptionschartslookalotlikethis—verylittledata,andvery
hardtointerpret.

P1:OTA
c05 JWBT295-Knight May4,2010 7:48 Printer:Yettocome
106 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
FIGURE 5.25 OncetheBid-AskOverlayischecked,thegraphismucheasierto
read.
instrument,whichProphetChartswilldeduceforyou.LookatFigure5.26,
for instance. The option (plotted in black) is a put on IWM. By checking
Compare with Stock, you can cause ProphetCharts to plot in the same
graph the security on which the option is based (in this instance, IWM,
plottedinbrown).
There are two other checkboxes in Option Controls: Avg. Implied
Volatility (used for stocks and indexes) and Implied Volatility (used for
options).Thepriorfigure,Figure5.23, illustrateshow impliedvolatilityis
chartedinitsownpane.Ifyouarelookingatastock,itwillshowtheaver-
agedimpliedvolatility,andifyouarelookingdirectlyatanoptionsinstru-
ment,itwillplottheimpliedvolatility.
There is a third item on the Symbols menu that hasn’t been explored
yet, and that is Show Options, featured in Figure 5.27. When you choose
this menu item, all of the puts and calls for the security you are viewing
will be denoted on the chart. It will not show expired options, but it will
showallthefutureoptions.
The options are denoted by two different icons: a large C for call op-
tionsandalargePforputoptions.LookingatFigure5.28,youcanseethat
thechartofIWMhasyieldeddozensofCandPiconsonthechart,showing
thevariouscallandputoptionsthatareavailable.Theseiconsarelocated
preciselyonthex-axis(todenotetheirexpirationtime)andy-axis(tode-
notetheirstrikeprice).Sothefarthertotherightaniconisonthechart,
the farther out in time it expires, and the higher the icon is on the graph,
thehigheritsstrikeprice.

P1:OTA
c05 JWBT295-Knight May4,2010 7:48 Printer:Yettocome
MarketandDataTypes 107
FIGURE 5.26 OverlaywithStockplotstheunderlyinginstrumentalongwithits
option.
FIGURE 5.27 Choosing the Show Options item reveals all available options for
thesecurityshown.

P1:OTA
c05 JWBT295-Knight May4,2010 7:48 Printer:Yettocome
108 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
FIGURE 5.28 Forthcoming options on the graph with icons suggesting strike
pricesandexpirationdates.
These icons are not passive, however. You can actually make use of
themforthingsbesidessimplyseeingwhatoptionsareavailableforagiven
stock or index. There are, to the right of the chart, three tabs—Singles,
Dual-legs,andMulti-legs—suggestingthekindsofoptionsordersyoucan
construct simply by clicking on any of the C or P icons. This order con-
structionisspecifictothethinkorswimbrokerageplatform.
AsyoucanseeinFigure5.29,runningthemouseoveranyoftheicons
revealsthesymbol,strikeprice,type,andexpiration.Ifyouclickonanyof
theicons,richlydetailedinformationabouteachinstrumentanditscurrent
pricewillappearintheorderconstructionarea,asshowninFigure5.30.
Foratechnicaltrader,datameansopportunity.Understandingthedif-
ferentclassesofdatainProphetChartswill,ataminimum,helpyouappre-
ciate intermarket relationships regardless of what you trade, and it might

P1:OTA
c05 JWBT295-Knight May4,2010 7:48 Printer:Yettocome
MarketandDataTypes 109
FIGURE 5.29 Running the mouse over any of the options icons will yield basic
informationaboutthem.
FIGURE 5.30 Clicking on any of the icons will make deeper data appear in the
optionorderconstructionpane.

P1:OTA
c05 JWBT295-Knight May4,2010 7:48 Printer:Yettocome
110 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
even open you up to trading other markets you had not considered in
thepast.
The menu functions, wizards, and modules built into ProphetCharts
makeaccessinganyofthesedatatypesquickandeasy.Nowthatyouhave
asolidgroundingastobasicchartformationandhowtoaccessdifferent
classesoftradableinstruments,wecanturnourattentiontoadeeperlevel
ofchartanalysis,thetechnicalindicators.

P1:OTA
c06 JWBT295-Knight May5,2010 6:45 Printer:Yettocome
C H A P T E R 6
Indicators in
Action
I
n the world of charting, the most basic way to look at a stock (or any
other financial entity) is with the price data. The prices make up the
trends and patterns of value as it moves through time, and there is a
greatdealthatcanbelearnedandpredictedbasedonpricemovement.
However,thereisanotherdeeperwaytolookatthispricemovement,
andthatiswiththeuseoftechnicalindicators.Anindicatorisessentially
an embellishment on the graph derived from price and/or volume data.
Thisembellishmentmighttaketheformofup-arrows,down-arrows,aline
graphoverlaidontopofapricegraph,ahistogram,oranyofmanyother
forms.
There are literally hundreds of indicators that have been created.
ProphetCharts provides access to nearly 200 of these. And many of these
indicatorscanthemselvesprovidedifferentparametersandtweakstotheir
settings.Sothenumberofpossibleindicatorsatyourdisposaltheoretically
isinthehundredsofthousands.
Thepurposeofthischapterisnottodelveintoeachandeverypossi-
bleindicator.Therearefartoomany,andtherearemanyexcellentbooks
already writtenabout thespecifics ofthese indicators. Instead, thischap-
ter provides you a basis for understanding the philosophy behind indica-
tors, highlighting a small sample to help you understand the reasoning. It
alsohasthepurposeofshowingyouhow,withinProphetCharts,toaccess
theseindicators.
111

P1:OTA
c06 JWBT295-Knight May5,2010 6:45 Printer:Yettocome
112 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
SINGLE VERSUS MULTIPLE INDICATORS
Indicators can be used one at a time or in combination. To better under-
standthis,itisimportanttoknowthatindicatorscomeintwoverydiffer-
enttypes:overlaidandindependent.
Anoverlaidindicatorisonethatisputinthesamespaceastheprice
chart itself. A good example is the moving average indicator. This line is
plotted directly on top of the price chart and is thus laid over the origi-
nalchart.Anindependentindicator,ontheotherhand,appearsinitsown
separatewindow.Thiswindowcanappearaboveorbelowthepricewin-
dow so that the time series lines up, but it is not within the price chart
itself.
If you choose to use more than one indicator, those that you choose
can be any combination of overlaid or independent indicators. For exam-
ple,youmightchoosetoput(1)a20-daymovingaverage,(2)a50-daymov-
ingaverage,(3)a200-daymovingaverage,(4)aMACDhistogram,and(5)
anRSIstudyonachart.Ofthesefiveindicators,thefirstthreeareoverlaid,
and the last two are independent. (Thus, you would wind up with three
stacked chart panes: one with the price chart and the other two with the
MACDandtheRSI.)
Thischapterfocusesonusingjustoneindicatoratatime.InChapter
7,youwilllearnhowtoedittheparametersofindividualindicatorsaswell
ashowtocombineindicatorsintoStudySets.
MOVING AVERAGES
Oneofthemostpopularandsimpleindicatorsisthemovingaverage.There
areanumberofkindsofmovingaverages(simple,exponential,displaced,
bands,andsoon),butaswasmentionedearlier,thepurposeofthischapter
isn’ttoaddresseverypossiblepermutationofeveryindicator;instead,its
purposeistounderstandthebasicssothatyoucanapplythatknowledge
toanyofthehundredsofindicatorsavailable.
The purpose of a moving average is to smooth the price data in such
away astofilterout thenoise—thedailyup-and-down pricemovements.
Thecomputationofasimplemovingaverageisthesumof“n”numberof
prices (typically, the closing price) divided by “n.” For instance, suppose
thatoverafive-dayperiod,thefollowingclosingpricesexistedforagiven
stock:
Day1:$12.50
Day2:$13.75

P1:OTA
c06 JWBT295-Knight May5,2010 6:45 Printer:Yettocome
IndicatorsinAction 113
Day3:$13.27
Day4:$14.23
Day5:$14.05
Thefive-daymovingaverage,ascomputedforDay5,wouldbethesum
ofthepriorfivedays($67.80)dividedby5,whichequals13.56.Bycomput-
ingthisvalueonacontinuousbasis,andplottingthelinegraphofthemov-
ingaverage,ProphetChartsisabletodisplayasmoothedrepresentationof
priceaction.
LookatthechartinFigure6.1,whichisapricechartofNucorCorpora-
tion(symbolNUE)withaplotofits20-daysimplemovingaverage(which
is the smooth line). Creating this study is simply a matter of (1) opening
theTechnicalStudiesmoduleand(2)double-clickingonthestudydesired,
which,inthiscase,isSimpleMovingAverage.
Thereareanumberofthingstonoticeaboutthischart:
(cid:1)
In the upper-left corner of ProphetCharts is the notation MA(20)
last=110.4075. This is a shorthand way of ProphetCharts indicating
that the smooth line is a 20-day moving average whose last value is
$110.4075.Ifyouareusingmultiplestudies,alegendwillappearwith
an abbreviation for each study used and a colored line to indicate
whichcolorcorrespondswithwhatstudy.
FIGURE 6.1 ThepriceofNucor,whichhasstayedabovethe20-daymovingav-
erageformanymonths,crossesbeneathit,indicatingasellsignal.

P1:OTA
c06 JWBT295-Knight May5,2010 6:45 Printer:Yettocome
114 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
(cid:1)
Themovingaverageisrepresentedasasmoothlinegraph,asopposed
to the open, high, low, and close bars of the price chart. By its very
nature, this line is a lagging indicator; in other words, it is based on
olddata(inthisinstance,thepast20days)andisthereforebehindthe
price trend. But that is the value of this indicator: because it lags the
prices,itprovidesaslower-movingrepresentationofthegeneralprice
action and can suggest important directional change when the price
crossesaboveorbelowit.
(cid:1)
OncethepricepushedabovethemovingaverageinJanuary,itstayed
above that level until late April, denoted with a large arrow in this
graph. This is known as a crossover, and in this instance, the price
crossingbelowthemovingaveragewouldbeinterpretedasasellsig-
nal.Soifyouwerelongthisstockatabout$70,whenthepricemoved
clearly above the indicator, you would have held it until about $110,
whenthepricefinallydippedbelowthemovingaverage.
The basic principle at work here—and you will see this many times
withtechnicalindicators—isthatpositivecrossoversgeneratebullishsig-
nalsandnegativecrossoversgeneratebearishsignals.Themoresensitive
anindicator,themorevolatileitis,whichmeansthatwhipsawsareacom-
monanddangerousphenomenon.Awhipsawtakesplacewhensignalsare
socommonthatyouwould,intheory,bejumpinginandoutofastockfar
too frequently, and with poor results. The chart in Figure 6.1 illustrates a
smoothandusefulindicator,becausethepricewasplainlyabovethemov-
ingaverageuntilaveryclearsignalwasgenerated.Ifthepricehadcrossed
under and over the indicator 10 times during the course of the chart, it
wouldobviouslybemuchlessuseful.
Movingaveragescanbesettovirtuallyanylengthoftime.Totakean
extremeexample,aone-daymovingaveragewouldmatchtheclosingprice
exactly (and would therefore simply be a line graph of the price chart).
Theshortesttimespantypicallyseenwithmovingaveragesis10days,and
othercommonlengthsinclude30-,50-,100-,and200-daymovingaverages.
Thelongertheperiod,theslower(andsmoother)themovingaverage
is. A 200-day moving average is going to lag the price far more than, for
instance,a30-daymovingaverage.Generallyspeaking,thelongerthetime
periodyouuse,thelessfrequentthesignalswillbe.Ifyouarearelatively
conservative trader, a 200-day moving average will be far better suited to
youthanashortertimehorizon.
Figure 6.2 provides a good example of this. The security OIH made a
broad upward movement, nearly doubling in price during the time frame
shown. A buy signal, highlighted with the arrow, took place early in De-
cember when the price moved above the 200-day moving average. Even
though itdipped close tothismoving average acouple of times, itstayed

P1:OTA
c06 JWBT295-Knight May5,2010 6:45 Printer:Yettocome
IndicatorsinAction 115
FIGURE 6.2 ThebuysignalisgeneratedherewhenthepriceofOIHcrossesabove
its200-daymovingaverage.
above it, which means you would have stayed in the position if you were
using this indicator as the basis of your trade. A shorter moving average
wouldhavegeneratedsellsignalsmuchearlier.
Zoominginmuchcloseronthesamegraph(Figure6.3),itismucheas-
iertoseeexactlywhenthecrossovertookplace.Inthisinstance,theprice
gotveryclosetothemovingaverage,touchingitexactlyonthedaybefore
thecrossover.Butuntilthepricetrulycrossesover,thereisnosignal.On
December 5, the price pushed over the 200-day moving average, and the
stock ultimately tripled in price after the crossover (only the first portion
ofthemoveisshowninthesegraphs).
Thesimplemovingaverageistheeasiesttocalculateandunderstand.
However,ittreatsallpricedataequally;inotherwords,witha20-daymov-
ing average, the price 20 days ago is just as important as the current day.
If you would prefer togive agreater weighting to more recent data and a
lesserweightingtoolderdata,useanexponentialmovingaverage(EMA).
Themathematicsneednotbeunderstoodhere—thecomputerdoesallthat
work—buttheconceptisthattheindicatordoesnotlagasseverelysince
recentpricedatahaveaheavierweighting.

P1:OTA
c06 JWBT295-Knight May5,2010 6:45 Printer:Yettocome
116 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
FIGURE 6.3 Aclose-upoftheOIHgraph,highlightingthepointwheretheprice
crossedabovethe200-daymovingaverage.
Thereisevenakindofmovingaveragethatcanbeshiftedforwardor
backward in time to compensate for the lag in the indicator. It is called
thedisplacedmovingaverage(DMA).Nomatterwhichmovingaverageis
used,thebasicprinciplesarethesameinhowtoapplyittotrading.
Figure 6.4 provides an example of the DMA in action. This graph is a
somewhatmorerealisticexamplethantheearliermovingaveragegraphs,
because prices do not always behave perfectly with respect to indica-
tors. In other words, whipsaws are very common, and some amount of
discretion is needed to ascertain when a crossover has taken place and
whetheracrossoverintheoppositedirectionnegatestheearliersignaloris
simplynoise.
Inthiscase,symbolESRXcrossedbeneaththe100-dayDMA.Thissig-
naled the end of a rather long uptrend in the stock and could have been
interpretedasasellsignal.ThepricemovedabovetheDMA,thenbelow,
thenabove,thenbelowagainbeforestayingclearlybeneaththeindicator
andfallinginearnest.Inthisexample,interpretingtheviolationoftheDMA
asachangeintrendwastherightmove,sinceultimatelythestockfellhard,
eventhoughittookafewweekstotrulydoso.
To understand the premise behind crossovers, remember that there
are three basic directions that a stock (or any financial instrument) can
beheading:up,down,orsideways.Amarketmovingupmakesaseriesof
higherlowsandhigherhighs,creatingstairstepsthatgenerallypushprices
higher. A market moving down makes a series of lower lows and lower
highs,alsocreatingstairsteps,butmovinglower.Amarketthatfitsneither
ofthesetrenddefinitionsisgoingsideways.

P1:OTA
c06 JWBT295-Knight May5,2010 6:45 Printer:Yettocome
IndicatorsinAction 117
FIGURE 6.4 SymbolESRXcrossedbeneaththemovingaverageearlyinMarchand
startedfallinginearnestbylateApril.
Indicatorssuchasmovingaveragesareusefulduringtrendingmarkets,
betheyupordown.Ifusedinasidewaysmarket,alaggingindicatorwill
createlittlemorethanfalsesignals,frustration,andcapitallosses.
Untilnow,theexamplesshownhavebeenforbullishmoves.Figure6.5
illustratestheDMAasabearishsignal,whichwouldbeusefultoeither(1)
closealongpositionor(2)sellthestockshort,aimingtobuyitbacklater
atalowerprice.Ataminimum,suchasignalwouldatleastletyouknow
nottobelongthestockinthefirstplace.
Forthisstock,HomeDepot(symbolHD),thepricebrieflydippedbe-
lowits200-dayDMAearlyinMay,poppedbackabovetheDMAforafew
tradingsessions,andthenonceagainfellbelowtheDMA,stayingbeneath
the indicator for many months to come. This signal preceded a nearly
60percentfallinthepriceofthesecurity.
About11monthslater,thestockhadformedafairlydecentbaseinthe
low20s,pickedupsteam,andcrossedbackabovetheDMA.Asbefore,the
priceinitiallycrossedtheindicator,felltotheothersideforafewsessions,
and then very clearly crossed to the other side. This kind of noise is very
common, and it is up to your judgment and discretion whether to make

P1:OTA
c06 JWBT295-Knight May5,2010 6:45 Printer:Yettocome
118 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
FIGURE 6.5 Howcrossoversworkinbothdirections.AfterHomeDepotcrossed
beneathitsmovingaverage,itfellformanymonthsafterward.Thepricefirmedup
andcrossedabovethemovingaverageagain,precedingahandsomemovehigher.
a trade at the first sign of a crossover or whether to wait for a very plain
confirmationthatthepriceiswellawayfromtheindicatorandisnotlikely
tobecrossingitagain.
Becauselaggingindicatorsbydefinitionwilltrailthepricemovement
ofasecurity,youwillnotgetinoroutofapositionattheoptimumtime.
Thatisthepriceyoupayforcatchingbroadtrends.Itisvirtuallyimpossible
topinpointtheprecisetoporbottomofanymarket.Butifyouareableto
capture80percentofthemovementfromoneextremetoanother,youwill
doverywellasatrader.
Figure 6.6 shows a good example of this with the stock Yahoo!
(YHOO). The indicator used is a slow-moving 200-day DMA. The price of
thisstockbottomedatabout$4.50(which,aswithalltheexamplesinthis
book,isasplit-adjustedprice)andcrossedaboveitsDMAatabout$7.50.
So the price of the stock had moved up handsomely before a buy signal
wasgenerated.Thestockgotashighat$40andthenstartedsofteningup,
andeventuallythepricecrossedbeneaththeDMAatabout$34.
The move from $4.50 to $40 was about a ninefold move in the stock,
whereas the move from $7.50 (the entry point, based on the DMA) to $34

P1:OTA
c06 JWBT295-Knight May5,2010 6:45 Printer:Yettocome
IndicatorsinAction 119
FIGURE 6.6 An owner of Yahoo! might have held on to YHOO from $7 to $34
usingjustamovingaverage,sincethestockstayedclearlyaboveitduringmostof
thisgraphpriortothecrossunder.
(the exit point, based on the DMA) was only about a fivefold move. But
thefactisthatonlyinhindsightcouldonepinpointthesepreciselowand
high values, and with a relatively conservative approach, the majority of
theupwardmovementwasstillcaptured.
BOLLINGER BANDS
Bollinger Bands is a widely used indicator, which, like moving averages,
is an overlaid indicator. As the name implies, Bollinger Bands are made
upofmorethanonepart—thereisanupperband(whichistwostandard
deviations above the simple moving average) and a lower band (which is
twostandarddeviationsbelowthesimplemovingaverage).
Figure6.7illustrateswhatBollingerBandslooklikeinProphetCharts.
As with any other indicator, applying these bands is simply a mat-
ter of double-clicking the study from the Technical Studies module.
ProphetCharts makes it easy to see where the price is relative to the

P1:OTA
c06 JWBT295-Knight May5,2010 6:45 Printer:Yettocome
120 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
FIGURE 6.7 TheBollingerBandsareshadedtomaketheprice’srelativeposition
easytosee.
boundariescreatedbytheBollingerBandssinceitshadesintheareacon-
tainedbythebands.Thesebandsmakeiteasytoviewbothvolatilityand
pricelevels(relativetopasthistory)overanyperiodoftime.
BollingerBandsaren’tparticularlyusefulforascertainingfutureprice
movements. Instead, they provide insight as to where a price is relative
to its past action. If prices are mashed up against the upper band quite
tightly, it indicates that the price is relatively high. If prices are pushed
down hard against the lower band, it indicates that prices are relatively
low.Justbecausepricesareattheupperbanddoesn’tmeantheywillsoon
begoingdown,nordoesitmeanpriceswillgoupifpricesareatthelower
band.Butyoucanatleastunderstandwhichdirectionismorelikelybased
ontheprices’relativepositiontotheshadedportionofthebandedarea,as
showninFigure6.8.
Bank of America’s stock (symbol BAC) moved outside the Bollinger
Bands in Figure 6.9. It is possible, although not very common, for a price
todothiswhenitismakinganextremelyfastmoveeitherupordown.A
pricecansometimesstretchandevenbreakitsbandsinthismanner,but
eventually,thepricewillreturntotherange-bounddomain.

P1:OTA
c06 JWBT295-Knight May5,2010 6:45 Printer:Yettocome
IndicatorsinAction 121
FIGURE 6.8 Apricecanclingtoanextremeformanytradingdays.
THE RIBBON STUDY
Oneofthemostinteresting—somemightevensaybeautiful—studiesavail-
able in ProphetCharts is known as the Ribbon Study. This study is com-
prisedofanynumberofmovingaveragesofvariousperiods.InFigure6.10,
aRibbonStudymadeupof16differentmovingaveragesisshown,eachof
whichhasadifferenttimeperiod(10-day,20-day,30-day,andsoon).
The Ribbon Study is unusual in that it creates somewhat of a three-
dimensionalrepresentationofpricemovement(Figure6.11).Whenaprice
is moving generally higher or lower, the moving averages eventually all
moveinthesamedirectionandgetevenlywidefromoneanother.Whena
pricebeginstomovesideways(orchangedirectionaltogether),themoving
averagesgettighterandcoilupintoaband,almostasifthethreadsofthe
studyareformingarope.Duringdirectionshiftsofasecurity’sprice,you
can actually see the band turn as it twists from one direction to another.
Thiscoilingandturningishelpfulinknowingwhenpricesareconsolidat-
ingand,ultimately,changingdirection.

P1:OTA
c06 JWBT295-Knight May5,2010 6:45 Printer:Yettocome
122 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
FIGURE 6.9 Sometimesapricemovementissosuddenandunidirectionalthatit
stretchestheBollingerBandintheextreme.
FIGURE 6.10 Theribbonsweretightlywoundhere,precedingthemajormove-
mentofthisstock.

P1:OTA
c06 JWBT295-Knight May5,2010 6:45 Printer:Yettocome
IndicatorsinAction 123
FIGURE 6.11 Theribbonstudycanoftentakeonathree-dimensionaleffect,as
shownhere,astheribbonstwistintoanewdirection.
Figure 6.12 shows a close-up view of the area called out from Fig-
ure 6.11. This stock, NutriSystem (symbol NTRI) made an incredible up-
wardmovefrom$1.50toabout$70injustacoupleofyears.Theindividual
strandsoftheribbonweremovinguptogether,thenstartedheadingdown,
and then twisted back up again. This twist of the ribbon preceded an as-
tonishing move higher, and the twisting of this study demonstrated that
although the prices were basing for a short period, the core direction of
thestockwasup,andtheenergyreleasedafterthiscoilingwassufficient
topropelNTRIfarhigher.
The Ribbon Study is just noise for a stock that isn’t heading in any
particular direction (Figure 6.13). The threads of the study remain com-
pressed,twistingthiswayandthat,indicatingnoplainmovement.
TheRibbonStudyismostusefulforastockthatisabouttocommence
abroadmoveupordown,asshowninFigure6.14.Thesemovesareusu-
allyprecededbyacompressingofthethreads.Themorecompressedthe
study, the more powerful the subsequent move, particularly if the ribbon
twistsandchangesdirection.Theapplicationofthisindicatorisverysimi-
lartothatofthemovingaverageexceptthat,becausetherearemanymov-
ingaverages involved, you have theadded benefit ofseeing multipletime
periodsrepresentedallatonce.

P1:OTA
c06 JWBT295-Knight May5,2010 6:45 Printer:Yettocome
124 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
FIGURE 6.12 Thisclose-upofthesymbolNTRIillustratesthedetailofhowthe
ribbonstwisttochangedirection.
FIGURE 6.13 A stock stuck in a trading range, such as YHOO during the time
shownhere,resultsinaribbonstudythatremainsrelativelycompressed.

P1:OTA
c06 JWBT295-Knight May5,2010 6:45 Printer:Yettocome
IndicatorsinAction 125
FIGURE 6.14 When a stock price is moving sideways, the ribbons will become
denser.
LINEAR REGRESSION CHANNEL
Onestudy,whichissomewhatlikeBollingerBandsinitsapplication,isthe
Linear Regression Channel. There are actually a variety of Linear Regres-
sionstudies,buttheyallarebasedonthesameprinciple:atrendlineislaid
down that corresponds to an equilibrium in price. That is, a line is drawn
that is the best fit based on past price activity. Two other lines are then
laid down—one above and one below—that are the same distance from
theequilibriumline,withdistancebasedonpastpricevolatility.
What this results in is a channel with an upper half and a lower half.
SomeLinearRegressionstudieshavestraightlines,andothersarecurved.
Figure 6.15 shows one style of Linear Regression Channel with curved
lines. The prices are generally bound by the lines, bouncing between the
upperandlowerboundariesandhuggingthecenterline.Astheareawith
theroundedrectangleillustrates,thepricessometimesdogooutsidetheir
boundaries.Theseextremesareusuallycorrected,however,whichmeans
thattheseoutlierpricescanbeviewedasspecialbuyingorsellingoppor-
tunities.
While the prior figure shows price action that had dipped beneath
the lower boundary, Figure 6.16 shows a stock whose upward move-
ment was so swift and strong that it moved above its upper boundary.

P1:OTA
c06 JWBT295-Knight May5,2010 6:45 Printer:Yettocome
126 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
FIGURE 6.15 Alinearregressionstudywilltypicallykeepaboundaryonprices,
butsometimespricemovementissoextremeitgoesoutsidethelines.
FIGURE 6.16 Anotherexampleofthepricemovementbeingsoextremethatit
movesoutsidethenormalrangeofthelinearregressionchannel.

P1:OTA
c06 JWBT295-Knight May5,2010 6:45 Printer:Yettocome
IndicatorsinAction 127
Events like this can sometimes be exploited for quick trading profits,
since the stock has moved to an extreme level based on its past price
behavior.
PARABOLIC STOP AND REVERSAL
(PSAR)
TheParabolicStopAndReversal(PSARforshort)wasdevelopedbyfamed
technician Welles Wilder in 1978. The PSAR is a wonderfully simple indi-
catortouse,anditsexpresspurposeistoprovideastoppriceforagiven
position. The PSAR provides a trailing stop so that a person knows when
togetoutof(and,ifheisaparticularlyaggressivetrader,evenreverse)a
position.
Unlike most other indicators, the PSAR is drawn using not lines but
dots. If the dots are below the prices, it indicates the stock is moving
upward. If the dots are above the prices, it indicates the stock is mov-
ing downward. If the price touches or goes beyond its dot for a current
day, the PSAR flips and moves to the other side of the price movement
(Figure6.17).
So,atanygiventime,thecurrentPSARdotwillbeeitheraboveorbe-
lowthecurrentday’spricebar.Strictlyspeaking,youwouldresetyourstop
FIGURE 6.17 ThePSARindicatorisveryeasytouse:belongifthepriceisabove
thePSARandshortifthepriceisbelowit.

P1:OTA
c06 JWBT295-Knight May5,2010 6:45 Printer:Yettocome
128 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
FIGURE 6.18 WhenapricebarpushesthroughaPSARlevel,thePSARflipsfrom
eitherbullishtobearishorviceversa.
priceeverydaybasedonthePSARvalue,ifyouwereusingthisindicator
devoutly.TakealookatthechartofsymbolHANSinFigure6.18.Theac-
tivityformostofAprilhadpricesmovinghigher,andthePSARwasbelow
theprices.Thelasttwopricebarsonthegraph,however,havethePSAR
above instead of below the prices. The reason is that the second-to-last
price bar touched the PSAR dot, flipping this dot’s location from beneath
the price bar to above it. Until such time as the prices touch a PSAR dot,
thePSARwillremaininthisbearishposition.
MACD INDICATOR
So far in this chapter, the indicators discussed have been overlays.
The Moving Average Convergence Divergence (MACD) indicator is an
independent study, since it is displayed in its own graph pane instead of
beingputontopofthepricechart.
Asthenamesuggests,theMACDisbasedonmovingaverages.There
arethreemovingaveragesinvolved:
1. Afast-movingone.
2. Aslow-movingone.
3. Atrigger.

P1:OTA
c06 JWBT295-Knight May5,2010 6:45 Printer:Yettocome
IndicatorsinAction 129
FIGURE 6.19 The MACD provides a good signal to buy SUNW before the stock
beganitsmoveupward.
The most common figures are to have a 26-day exponential moving
average (EMA) as the slow one, a 12-day EMA as the fast one, and a 9-
dayasthecrossover.ProphetChartscalculatesthedifferencebetweenthe
26-dayand12-dayEMAsandplotsthisfinalvalue.Thisvaluemovesabove
and below a flat plot line, and there is no preestablished upper or lower
limittothisvalue,sincethedifferencebetweenthesemovingaverageswill
bedifferentforeverysecurityexamined.
Figure 6.19 shows the two-line MACD study: the black line is the dif-
ference between the 26-day and 12-day EMA; the dashed line is the 9-day
EMA. A signal takes place when the black line crosses above the dashed
line (bullish) or below the dashed line (bearish). The MACD’s purpose
is to plot the underlying momentum of a security and to offer crossover
pointsasabasisfortradedecisions.Inthisexample,theMACDprovideda
buysignaljustbeforeSunMicrosystems(symbolSUNW)startedahealthy
moveupward.
There are actually two different ways of making use of the MACD:
crossoversanddivergences.Acrossoveristheplainest,becauseyousim-
ply need to watch for the black line to cross above or below the dashed
line. A divergence takes place when the general direction of an indicator
is the opposite of the general direction of the security. For example, if a
particularstockseemedtobeinadowntrend,yetitsMACDwasfirmand
heading upatthesametime,thatisadivergent indicatorastowherethe

P1:OTA
c06 JWBT295-Knight May5,2010 6:45 Printer:Yettocome
130 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
FIGURE 6.20 Threesignalsinarelativelyshortperiod—firstabuy,thenasell,
thenanotherbuy.
price is going to move next. A person using the MACD in this way would
acquirethestock,trustingtheMACDtobeprovidingabuysignalpriorto
thestockfollowingsuitandmovinghigher.
As with any other crossover signal, the MACD is prone to providing
multiplesignals.Themorevolatileasecurity,themorefrequent(andless
reliable) these signals will be. If you are a very active trader, you can
use multiple signals as an opportunity to trade the stock more frequently
andinbothdirections(thatis,boththelongsideandtheshortside).The
symbolOIH(Figure6.20)providesanillustrationofthis,sincetherewere
threesignalsgiveninarelativelyshortperiod:firstabuy,thenasell,then
anotherbuy.
The most powerful MACD signals are preceded by relatively quiet
price activity. If a stock is moving along in a relatively tight channel and
then gives a clear MACD signal, it is often an indicator of an important
price change. For example, A G Edwards (symbol AGE) was trading for
months in a tight range of just a few dollars (Figure 6.21). In mid-March,
even though the prices did not seem to be doing anything particularly
unusual, an MACD signal was generated to buy the stock. Although it
took a couple of weeks before any breakout occurred, the subsequent
movement was significant, and the MACD gave warning farinadvance of
theactualpricemove.
Indicators can sometimes take on an almost clairvoyant quality
about them. The reason is that indicators provide a different insight and

P1:OTA
c06 JWBT295-Knight May5,2010 6:45 Printer:Yettocome
IndicatorsinAction 131
FIGURE 6.21 TheMACDshownheresignaledasubstantialmoveinAGEdwards
stock.
representationoftheunderlyingpricemovementthatisnotvisiblebysim-
plylookingatthepricechart.InFigure6.22,thestockoftheChicagoMer-
cantileExchange(symbolCME)hadbeensteadyinJulyandAugust,drift-
ingdownward lateinAugust. Inspiteof thisanemic behavior, theMACD
providedacrossovertotheupside.Thiscrossoverprecedednotjustavery
largeupmovement,butitspecificallyprecededasingle-daymovementof
20points.
ThereisanotherwayyoucanviewMACDinformation,andthatisby
theuseofahistogram.TheMACDhistogramiscomputedinthesameway,
butinsteadofprovidingtwolines,itillustratesthedifferencebetweenthe
two lines with positive bars (above the 0.00 line) or negative bars (below
the0.00line).
Figure 6.23 shows an example of an MACD histogram. Because the
bars are different and the transition from positive to negative (or vice
versa) is so obvious, this representation of MACD movement makes it
mucheasiertospotcrossovers.
Figure 6.24 shows the analysis of a stock with an MACD histogram
andatwo-lineMACDstackedontopofoneanother.Thismakesiteasier
tounderstandhowthesetwostudiescorrelate.Inthetwo-linestudy,when
the black line is beneath the dashed trigger line, there are negative bars
in the histogram. When the black line is above the dashed trigger line,
therearepositivebarsinthehistogram.Asyoucansee,thetriggerpoints

P1:OTA
c06 JWBT295-Knight May5,2010 6:45 Printer:Yettocome
132 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
FIGURE 6.22 ThisMACDnotonlyprecededabigmoveupbythestockCMEbut
alsowasadayinadvanceofthe20-pointmovemadeinasingleday.
FIGURE 6.23 TheMACDcanalsobeviewedasahistogram.

P1:OTA
c06 JWBT295-Knight May5,2010 6:45 Printer:Yettocome
IndicatorsinAction 133
FIGURE 6.24 The differences between the MACD histogram and the two-line
indicator.
are identical for both studies, and which study you elect to use is strictly
personalpreference.
RELATIVE STRENGTH INDEX (RSI)
The Relative Strength Index, often shortened to simply RSI, is a study
that compares the magnitude of a stock’s recent gains to recent losses.
The study itself is a single line that is in its own pane, moving up and
down between the ranges of 0 (at the bottom) to 100 (at the top). The
RSI (Figure 6.25) is very simple to interpret and use: if it drops below 70
(whichismarkedwithahorizontaldashedline),thereisasellsignal;ifit
goes above 30 (also marked witha dashed horizontal line),there isabuy
signal.
The path the RSI takes depends completely on the direction and
momentum of the security’s price. It may bob up and down between the
30 and 70 levels, generating no signals for quite some time. The best RSI
indications happen when the study is plainly above or below one of the
horizontal lines (Figure 6.26) and makes a decisive move back into the
middlerange.
Unlikeslower-movingstudies,theRSIispronetogeneratingmanybuy
andsellsignals.InChapter7,youwilllearnhowtousemultiplestudiesto-
gether so they can essentially vote on the predicted direction of a stock.
Figure6.27showsthepopularNASDAQexchange-tradedfund(ETF;sym-
bolQQQQ)withfourdifferentRSIsignals:threeofthemsells,andoneof

P1:OTA
c06 JWBT295-Knight May5,2010 6:45 Printer:Yettocome
134 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
FIGURE 6.25 ThreeRSIsignalsonsymbolBHI—firstasell,thenabuy,thenan-
othersell.
FIGURE 6.26 A very clean RSI buy signal, since the RSI line went plainly
below—andthenabove—the30mark.

P1:OTA
c06 JWBT295-Knight May5,2010 6:45 Printer:Yettocome
IndicatorsinAction 135
FIGURE 6.27 Somesecuritiesaresovolatilethattheyprovidemultipleentryand
exitpointsinarelativelyshorttimeframe.
FIGURE 6.28 TheRSIiseasiesttouseonbroad,moregradualmovements,such
asareshownhereforUnitedStatesSteel.

P1:OTA
c06 JWBT295-Knight May5,2010 6:45 Printer:Yettocome
136 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
themabuy.Inthisexample,eachofthesesignalscorrectlyanticipatedthe
futuredirectionofthestock.
Stocks with RSI studies that are moving steadily without an abun-
dance of signals are typically the most profitable. Figure 6.28 illustrates
such a case with United States Steel (symbol X). In late October, after
a steady decline in prices, the RSI pushes above the 30 level and antici-
patesahandsome40percentappreciationinthestockwithinaveryshort
timeperiod.TheRSIslipsbeneaththe70levelinearlyDecember,provid-
ing an easy opportunity to lock in profits before the stock eases in price
anymore.
This chapter has given you an introduction to the basic concepts be-
hind technical indicators. Although we have examined just a few basic
studies,youshouldatthispointunderstand:
(cid:1)
Thedifferencebetweenoverlaidandindependentindicators.
(cid:1)
Principlesbehindinterpretingbuyandsellsignalswithstudies.
(cid:1)
Howtoinvokeanindividualtechnicalstudy.
(cid:1)
Movingaverages,RSI,MACD,BollingerBands,theRibbonStudy,the
LinearRegressionChannel,andPSARstudies.
Inthenextchapter,youwilllearnhowtoedittheparametersofstudies
formorecontrolandhowtocombinestudiesintoStudySets.

P1:OTA
c07 JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 9:38 Printer:Yettocome
C H A P T E R 7
Multiple Studies
and
Comparisons
I
n Chapter 6, we learned how the application of technical studies
(also known as indicators) can provide new insights into a chart’s
price action, including providing explicit buy and sell signals. How-
ever, you may find there is value in applying more than just one study at
atime.
InProphetCharts,thepricegraphandanyoverlaystudiesareinasin-
gle charting pane. The volume, ifdisplayed, isinaseparate pane and any
otherindependenttechnicalindicatoreachhasitsownpane(Figure7.1).
Thevalueofhavingseparatepanesisthatyoucanrearrangetheorderand
sizeofeachofthosepanes.PanesinProphetChartshaveanumberofpow-
erfulproperties:
(cid:1)
Theycanbearrangedinanyorderyoulike.
(cid:1)
Theycaneachbeastallorshortasyoulike.
(cid:1)
Thevolumepanecanbesuppressedorrevealedatanytime.
(cid:1)
Youcanapplytechnicalstudiestovirtuallyanypane.
That last point is particularly important. There is no reason, for in-
stance, that a Simple Moving Average cannot be applied to the Volume
pane as easily as it could be applied to the Price pane. The flexibility in
ProphetChartsprovidesavirtuallyunlimitedpaletteforcraftingtechnical
studiestohelpyoumakebettertradingdecisions.
137

P1:OTA
c07 JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 9:38 Printer:Yettocome
138 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
FIGURE 7.1 Many studies can be applied at once to assist in the analysis of a
chart,andeachstudycanbeinitsownindividualpane.
THE TECHNICAL STUDIES EDITOR
One of ProphetCharts’ most powerful features is its technical studies ed-
itor, which allows you to apply, arrange, and adjust any of the nearly 200
differentstudiesavailableintheprogram.Thissectionwillintroduceyou
totheeditorandhowtouseit.
Applying a single study is something you learned about in Chapter 6.
The easiest way to apply one study is from the Technical Studies module
(Figure7.2),whichhasanalphabeticallistingofalltheselections.Double-
click on any study to apply it to the current chart, or drag-and-drop the
study onto the chart. Once the study is applied, it will remain there until
youchooseClearStudiesfromtheStudiesmenu.Soevenifyouentermany
otherstocksymbols,youwillseethestudyappliedtoeachoneofthem.
TheTechnicalStudiesmodulelimitsyoutoapplyingjustoneindicator
atatime.Ifyouareusingonestudyanddouble-clickonanother,theorig-
inal study will be replaced by the new one. If you want to apply multiple
studies,orifyouwanttofine-tunethesettingsofoneormoreoftheindica-
tors,youwillneedtousethetechnicalstudieseditor.Togettothiseditor,
choosetheApplyStudiesitemfromtheStudiesmenu(Figure7.3).

P1:OTA
c07 JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 9:38 Printer:Yettocome
MultipleStudiesandComparisons 139
FIGURE 7.2 Alistofallthestudiesis FIGURE 7.3 To access the technical
shownintheTechnicalStudiesmodule. studies editor, click Apply Studies from
You can drag-and-drop or double click theStudiesmenu.
anyofthesetoapplythem.
WhenyouchooseApplyStudies,adialogboxliketheoneinFigure7.4
appears. This is the technical studies editor, and it has four main compo-
nents:
1. Studies tab. Notice on the left side of the editor there are two
tabs—StudiesandMyStudySets.Theleftmostone,Studies,isselected
by default. This gives you access to the same list of technical studies
asisavailableintheTechnicalStudiesmodule.Youcanaddastudyin
anyofthreeways—bydoubleclickingit,byclickingitonceandthen
clicking Apply Study, or by dragging-and-dropping the study into the
paneofyourchoice.
2. My Study Sets tab.ThecontenthereisidenticaltotheMyStudySets
module.Youcanchoosethistabbyclickingonthetab,andbyclicking
on any of the study sets, you can examine or edit the components of
thatstudyset.Youwilllearnlaterinthischapterexactlyhowtomake
andnameastudyset.
3. Panes.Mostoftherightsideofthisdialogboxisdevotedtotheplace-
mentofthepanesthatmakeuptheentirechart.Eachsmallrectangle
represents a pane, and they are in the same order as they would be
displayedonthechartitself.Youcangrabtheupperportionofanyof

P1:OTA
c07 JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 9:38 Printer:Yettocome
140 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
FIGURE 7.4 Whenyouapplyatechnicalstudytotheprice,ashorthandabbrevi-
ationforthatstudywillappearinthepricepane.
thesepanesanddragitupordowninordertorearrangetheorderof
the panes. You can also drag a study from the Studies tab into any of
thepanesinordertoapplythatstudytothatpane.Forexample,ifyou
draggedSimpleMovingAverageintotheVolumepane,itwouldapply
thatstudytothevolume.
4. Buttons.Thereareeightotherelementstothiseditor,sevenofwhich
arebuttonsandoneofwhichisacheckbox.Theseareeachdescribed
next.

P1:OTA
c07 JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 9:38 Printer:Yettocome
MultipleStudiesandComparisons 141
Thebuttonsinthestudieseditorperformthefollowingfunctions:
(cid:1)
ApplyStudy.Clickingthisistheequivalentofdouble-clickingastudy.
Youhavetoclickaparticularstudyfirstbeforethisbutton.
(cid:1)
Edit Study. Clicking this brings up a dialog box to let you edit any
studyyouhaveappliedtothechart.Youmustclickanyofthestudies
on the right side of the screen before clicking Edit Study. The dialog
boxyouseewilldependonthestudyselected.Ashortcuttogettothe
sameplaceistodouble-clickthestudywithinthepane.
(cid:1)
Delete Study. This deletes a study you have applied to the chart. As
with Edit Study, you have to choose one of the studies in one of the
panesforthistodoanything.
(cid:1)
Show Last Values. This is a checkbox, not a button, but it has one
simple function: to display the most recent values for each of the
studies you have applied to the chart. If this is checked, the most
recent values for each study will appear in the upper-left corner of
eachpane.
(cid:1)
AddPane.Thisaddsablankpanetoyourchart.Thepurposeofapane
istoputstudieswithinit.Youprobablywillnotneedtousethisbutton
veryoften,becausewhenyouaddastudytoachart,itisgivenanew
paneforitself,anyway.
(cid:1)
Save Study Set. Clicking this button lets you preserve all the studies
and their settings into a study set which you can later access by just
double-clickingthenameofthestudyset.
(cid:1)
OK.Thisacceptsallthechangesyouhavemadeandclosestheeditor.
EDITING A STUDY
Whetheryouareapplyingonestudyoramultitudeofthemtoachart,you
can edit any study to change its settings and appearance. Although you
probablywillbesatisfiedwiththedefaultsettingsprovidedwithanygiven
study, you might want to change the appearance settings to your liking.
Plus,ifyouareparticularlysophisticatedwithagiventechnicalindicator,
youmayhaveyourownsettingsyouwanttoapplyinstead.
Generallyspeaking,whatyouareabletoeditforanygivenstudyfalls
intothreegeneralcategories:(1)thesourceofthedata;thatis,thenumbers
upon which the resulting technical indicator is based; (2) other numeric
parametersusedtocomputethestudy,suchasthenumberoftimeperiods
to use; (3) the presentation of the study, such as its color, opacity, line
style,andsoforth.
It should also be noted that the concept of time periods strictly de-
pends on the frequency of the bars being shown in your chart. If you are

P1:OTA
c07 JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 9:38 Printer:Yettocome
142 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
looking at a daily graph, then a “period” is a day. So a 20-period moving
average is a20-day moving average. Ifyou areinstead looking at the past
fivedaysoftradingactivityonanhour-by-hourbasis,eachbarrepresents
one hour of time, so the same moving average study would be a 20-hour
movingaverage.
For the sake of simplicity, we will assume you are looking at a daily
chart,sowewillusetermssuchas“50-daymovingaverage”insteadofthe
morepreciseandaccurate“50-periodmovingaverage.”
To edit a study, all you need to do is double-click the study that has
been applied and appears on the right side of the technical studies edi-
tor. You can also click the study once and then click the Edit Study but-
ton.Whenyoudothis,aStudyEditorforthatparticularstudywillappear
(Figure7.5)andwillcontainthevariouscontrolsgermanetothatstudyas
well as the settings that are being used for it (which will typically be the
defaultsettings,unlessyouhavechangedthem).
Althougheverydialogboxwillbealittledifferent,basedonthestudy,
theoneshowninFigure7.5(whichisforBollingerBands)isrepresentative
ofthegeneralcomponentsyouwillseeforaStudyEditor.Theseare:
(cid:1)
Data source. This dropdown lets you choose which element of the
priceshouldbeusedasthebasisforcomputingthestudy.Mostpeople
wanttousetheclosingpricefortheirstudies.Butperhapsyou’drather
use the high price. Or the low price. You can click on this dropdown
andchooseanyoftheavailablepricefields.Thefieldsavailabletoyou
dependonthestudyandhowitisbeingused.
(cid:1)
Bar period and standard deviations.Thesetwofieldsarespecificto
theBollingerBandsstudy,buttheyareagoodexampleofthekindof
fine-tuningyoucandowithatechnicalstudy.Youshouldhaveadeep
understandingofthestudyinquestionbeforeadjustingthedefaultpa-
rameters,however.OneexceptionistheMovingAverage,whoseprin-
cipal parameter (the number of periods to use) is simple enough for
anyonetounderstand.
(cid:1)
Fill, upper, and lower buttons. These three graphical buttons con-
trol the color, upper-line appearance, and lower-line appearance, re-
spectively. Again, these are specific to Bollinger Bands but are good
general examples of the kinds of controls you will see on a Study
Editor.
Clickingonanyoftheappearancecontrolbuttonsyieldsotherdialog
boxes. For example, clicking the Fill button (which has a colored square
init)opensaColordialogbox(Figure7.6)thatgivesyoucontroloverthe
colorandopacityofthestudy.Choosingthecolorissimpleenough—you

P1:OTA
c07 JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 9:38 Printer:Yettocome
MultipleStudiesandComparisons 143
FIGURE 7.5 Youhavealotofcontrol FIGURE 7.6 Thecolorofaparticular
overeachtechnicalstudy,sincevirtually studymakesiteasytoread.Youcanad-
anyaspectofitscomputationorappear- justthecolorandopacityofanystudyto
ancecanbeadjusted. yourpreference.
areprovidedapaletteofcolorsfromwhichtochoose—butyoumightnot
beacquaintedwiththeterm“opacity.”
The opacity of an object controls how much you can see through it,
if at all. You can change this setting from as little as 0.1 (as see-through
as possible) up to 1.0 (solid). This is valuable because you will quickly
find that studies can clutter your chart. You want them to enhance your
charting experience, not get in the way of it.One effective way todo this
is to tone down the appearance of a study (particularly overlaid studies)
so that they are more subtle. Your principal focus should always be on
thepriceaction, withthestudies providingyou differentinsights intothe
generaltrendoftheprice.
Clickingeitherthe“upper”or“lower”buttonproducesaspecialdialog
box to control the style of each line (Figure 7.7). As with the prior dialog
box,youhavecontroloverthecolorandopacity.Youalsohavetwonew
controls:Weight(whereintheselectionfromthedropdownmenuletsyou
select how thick the line should be) and Pattern (wherein the selection
letsyouchooseifthelineissolid,dashed,dotted,orsomeotherstyle).It
bears repeating that all the studies will have different controls, but these
controlswillbeself-explanatory.Youwillalsoseetheeffectsonthechart
immediately,soyoucancontinuetomakeadjustmentsbeforecommitting
thechangeswithanOK.
As another illustration of how each Study Editor is different,
Figure 7.8 shows the dialog box for the MACD technical indicator. It has
the Data Source dropdown, as the other one did, but its numeric input is

P1:OTA
c07 JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 9:38 Printer:Yettocome
144 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
FIGURE 7.7 Usethelinestyleeditor FIGURE 7.8 You can edit any study.
tochangethecolor,opacity,weight,and Inthiscase,youcanalterthedataused
patternofeachlineinastudy. asthebasisfortheMACDaswellasits
three moving average periods and the
appearance of both the MACD and sig-
nallines.
different,sincetheMACDcallsfordifferentparameters(inthiscase,fast
period, slow period, and signal period). Whereas the Bollinger Bands had
an upper line and a lower line, the MACD has a MACD line and a Signal
line.Aswiththenumericparameters,theseappearancesettingsaregiven
defaultvalues,whichsuitthemajorityofusers.
WORKING WITH PANES
The abilitytosize and arrange thepanes which comprise the entirechart
isoneofProphetCharts’mostpowerfulfeatures.Manipulatingthepanesis
quiteintuitive,sinceitmerelyinvolvesdragging-and-droppingthepanesin
theorderyouwant.First,ithelpstofullyunderstandthenatureofpanes.
InProphetCharts,apanecaneitherbe(a)thePricepane,(b)theVol-
ume pane, or (c) a study pane. Any of these panes can contain technical
indicators, and the item affected depends on where those indicators are
placed. If a Moving Average is in the Price pane, that study will show up
overlaidwiththeprices.IfitisintheVolumepane,itwillshowupoverlaid
withvolume.Ifitisinitsownpane,itwillbethesameshapeasifitwere
inthePricepane,butitwillbebyitself.

P1:OTA
c07 JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 9:38 Printer:Yettocome
MultipleStudiesandComparisons 145
FIGURE 7.9 Independentindicatorsareprovidedwiththeirownpane.
You can also edit any given study within its pane. The editing you do
in one pane does not affect the other panes. So if you had three moving
averages in the Price pane (a 30-, 50-, and 100-day moving average) and
a single moving average in the Volume pane, editing the moving average
intheVolumepanewouldnotaltertheotherthreemovingaverages.The
only “tie that binds” the panes together is the x-axis, which is time. All
the panes will line up with respect to time, because the chart would be
meaninglessotherwise.
You typically needn’t worry about the creation and management of
panes,exceptinsofarasyouwanttochangetheirorder.Whenyouapplya
study,thatstudywillgointothemostcommonplace,andifitcallsforthe
creation of anew pane, such apane willbe created. Figure 7.9illustrates
how the Price pane has its own indicator (BBEMA, which is the abbrevi-
ation for Bollinger Band Exponential Moving Average) while the MACD
indicatorisinitsownpane.
You may have reason for the panes to be in a different vertical order
thanisprovided.Itiscompletelyuptoyouhowyouwantthesetoappear.
Typically,thevolumeforapricechartappearsbeneaththeprice.Perhaps
you’dpreferthevolumetobeontop.AllyouneeddoisclickontheVolume
pane,holddownthemousebutton,anddragthepanetobeabovethePrice

P1:OTA
c07 JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 9:38 Printer:Yettocome
146 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
FIGURE 7.10 Thischartshowstheresultofdraggingthevolumepaneabovethe
pricepane.
pane.AsshowninFigure7.10,yourchartwillthenhavethesepanesinthe
orderyouhavestated.
Asyouaredraggingobjectsaroundthetechnicalstudyeditor,aghost
image of what is being dragged appears so you can accurately place it,
whether it’s a pane or a study. Figure 7.11 shows the Simple Moving Av-
erage study being dragged from the Studies list over to the Price pane. It
will have its default setting (a 30-period moving average), which can be
changed once the drag-and-drop operation is complete. As you can see,
there are three panes on this chart—a pane for the MACD study, a Price
panewithtwostudies,andaVolumepane(whichisgrayed-out,sincethe
volumeisbeinghiddenonthischartbasedontheQuickToggles).
And, as always, once you finish dropping a study to its location, you
candouble-clickonthatstudytoadjustitssettings(Figure7.12).Youwill
certainly do this with moving averages if you use more than one moving
average,sincetheywillotherwiseallhavethesameperiods.
DELETING STUDIES AND PANES
If you want to remove a study, just click on it and then click on Delete
Study.Itwillberemovedatonce.

P1:OTA
c07 JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 9:38 Printer:Yettocome
MultipleStudiesandComparisons 147
FIGURE 7.11 Youcandrag-and-dropastudyfromtheleftsidetotheright,and
whenyoudoso,aghostimageofwhatyouaredraggingappearssoyoucanplace
itinthecorrectpane.
Ifthestudyyouaredeletingistheonlythinginitspane,andthepane
isnotPriceorVolume,ProphetChartswillaskyouifyouwouldliketogo
ahead and delete the pane at the same time. After all, there is not much
value in having an empty pane unless you intend to put something else
there. If you want the pane removed, click on Yes. You can save yourself
timebycheckingthe“Don’twarnme”checkboxbeforeclickingYessothat
ProphetChartsdoesnotneedtoaskyouanymore.
Amoredirectwaytodeleteboththepaneandallthestudieswithinit
is to click the close box in the upper-right corner of any pane. When you
do, a dialog box like the one in Figure 7.13 appears, verifying you want
tomakethisdeletion.YoucanclickOKtoproceedand,asbefore,youcan
clickthe“Don’twarnme”checkboxinordernottobeadvisedinthefuture.

P1:OTA
c07 JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 9:38 Printer:Yettocome
148 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
FIGURE 7.12 Eachstudyhasitsownparametersandsettingsyoucanfine-tune
toyourliking.
Thissavestime,butitalsomeansyouwon’thaveachancetochangeyour
mind when you delete panes later (you can also reactivate this warning
laterbyclickingtheEnableWarningscheckboxinthePreferencesdialog
box,accessedfromtheChartSettingsmenu).
CROSSOVERS AND MULTIPLE STUDIES
Many indicators offer buy or sell signals based on a specific rule. For in-
stance, as you learned in Chapter 6, the RSI indicator issues a buy signal
when it crosses above the 30 line and a sell signal when it crosses below
FIGURE 7.13 Any time you delete a pane in the technical studies editor, this
warningboxwillappear.Youcanclick“Don’twarnme”andthenOKifyoudonot
wanttoseethisanymore.

P1:OTA
c07 JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 9:38 Printer:Yettocome
MultipleStudiesandComparisons 149
FIGURE 7.14 Ifyouwanttoseewhencrossoverstakeplaceonaparticulartech-
nicalindicator,checktheShowTradeSignalscheckboxintheStudyEditor.
the 70 line. The MACD provides signals when the MACD line crosses the
triggerlineeitherupward(buy)ordownward(sell).
ProphetChartscanmakeiteasierforyoutoseethesecrossoverpoints
by providing upward-pointing arrows (“buy”) and downward-pointing
arrows(“sell”)toshowwherethesesignalstakeplace.Itisveryimportant
to take note that these are not explicit trading recommendations. They
simplyindicatewhenagivenindicatorhascrossedacertainthresholdor
otherwiseachievedapredefinedparameter.Anyapplicationofrealmoney
intheworldofinvestmentsmustinvolveyourownjudgmentanddecision
making.
To make these up and down arrows appear, click on the Show Trade
Signals checkbox (Figure 7.14) in the technical study in which you want
arrowstoappear.
If you activate these crossover arrows, you will see the crossovers
plainlymarked,asillustratedinFigure7.15.
FIGURE 7.15 BuyandsellarrowsaredisplayedonthestudyiftheShowTrade
Signalscheckboxischecked.

P1:OTA
c07 JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 9:38 Printer:Yettocome
150 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
Before moving on to comparison charts, we will revisit the subject
of putting multiple studies in a single pane. This is most valuable in the
Price pane, because independent studies (such as MACD and the Fast
Stochastic) typically get too crowded and confusing when clustered into
thesamepane.
Assumeyouwantedtoapplythreedifferentexponentialmovingaver-
agestothepricechart.Thestepstodothiswouldbe:
1. Pullupthepricechartofanyfinancialinstrument.
2. ChooseApplyStudiesfromtheStudiesmenu.
3. Find“ExponentialMovingAverage”fromtheStudieslist,anddouble-
click on it three times. This makes three identical studies go into
the Price pane. These are all marked EMA(30), indicating in short-
hand that three 30-period Exponential Moving Averages have been
added.
4. Double-click on the first EMA(30) and change the value in the period
boxto10,thenclickOK.Thatwillmakeita10-daymovingaverage.
5. Double-clickonthesecondEMA(30)andchangeitsperiodvalueto50,
thenclickOK.ChangethethirdEMAto100inthesamemanner.The
PricepanewillresembleFigure7.16.
6. ClicktheOKbuttontofinish.
TheresultisshowninFigure7.17,withthreemovingaveragesoverlaid
on the price chart. A legend of the studies appears just beneath the data
line,showingeachofthestudiesfollowedby(1)itscurrentnumericvalue,
basedonwhereyouarepointingonthechart;and(2)itslast,mostrecent
valuefromthechart,sincethe“ShowLastValue”checkboxwaschecked
onthetechnicalstudieseditor.
Now that you understand how to combine technical studies, you can
usethetime-savingStudySetsfeature.
FIGURE 7.16 ThreeexponentialmovingaveragesbeingappliedtothePricepane
inthetechnicalstudieseditor.

P1:OTA
c07 JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 9:38 Printer:Yettocome
MultipleStudiesandComparisons 151
FIGURE 7.17 Three movingaverages on one chart, each of which has its color
andvaluedisplayinthelegendjustunderthedataline.
SAVING STUDY SETS
Asyoubecomemoreexpertwithvariousstudies,youwillfindcertainones
thatyouespeciallyliketouse.Youwillalsofindthatsomecombinationsof
thesestudiesworkwelltogether,sincetheycanbeusedtohelpyouweigh
yourtradingdecisionsand,inaway,voteonwhetheryouaregoingtobuy
a stock or not. You may even find yourself so adept withsome indicators
thatyouadjusttheirparameters(certainlythoseinvolvingappearance)to
yourliking.
It becomes time-consuming and tedious to go through the process
of applying and adjusting these studies every time. For this reason,
ProphetCharts provides for study sets. A study set is simply a collection
of technical studies (including all of its computation and appearance pa-
rameters)housedunderanamethatyouassign.
You may, for example, create a study set named “Three Moving
Averages,”andanotheronecalled“BullishBreakoutSystem,”andanother
called “Bollingers with PSAR and MACD.” What’s important is that the
names are distinct and meaningful to you, since study sets are your
shortcuttoapplyingwhatmightotherwisebeaverytediousapplicationof
settings.

P1:OTA
c07 JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 9:38 Printer:Yettocome
152 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
FIGURE 7.18 Topreservethetechni- FIGURE 7.19 Whenyousaveastudy
cal studies you have used into a single set,youcaneitherenteranewnameto
set,chooseSaveStudySetfromtheStud- saveanewsetorupdateasetyoumade
iesmenu. earlier.
CreatingastudysetisdonefromeithertheStudiesmenuorthetech-
nical studies editor. In either case all you do, once you have set up the
technicalstudiestoyourliking,isclickSaveStudySet(Figure7.18).
After you choose this option, a dialog box is presented (Figure 7.19)
that lets you either enter a new name or save the set onto an existing
name.Theradiobuttonsinthisdialogboxcontrolwhetherornotyouare
goingtocreateanewstudysetwithanewname(thedefaultchoice)orif
youwanttooverwriteapreviouslycreatedstudyset(thesecondchoice),
inwhichcaseyou’llneedtochoosethestudysetthatyouwanttoreplace
from the dropdown menu. Once you are done, you can click OK to save
yourstudyset.
If you decide to edit a study set later, you can do so from within the
technicalstudieseditor.JustclickonthenameofthestudysetintheMy
Study Sets tab, and the definition of that set will appear on the right side
(Figure7.20)foryoutoexamineormodify.
Afteryouhavecreatedyourstudyset,youcanapplyitbychoosingit
fromtheStudies menu or bydouble-clicking itfromtheMyStudies mod-
ule(Figure7.21).Generallyspeaking,themoreyouuseProphetCharts,the
morecustomizeditbecomes,andthestudysetsareoneimportantaspect
ofthiscustomization.
Theconvenience ofbeingabletosimplychoose astudysetandhave
allthecustomizedstudiesappliedinstantly(Figure7.22)willallowyouto

P1:OTA
c07 JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 9:38 Printer:Yettocome
MultipleStudiesandComparisons 153
FIGURE 7.20 When a study set is selected, all the components and settings of
thatsetaredisplayedontherightsideofthedialogbox.
focusmoreonyourtradingdecisionsinsteadoftheadjustmentofmenus
andnumbers.
Once again, the “Show Last Values” checkbox was checked in the
creation of the study set in Figure 7.22, so the most recent values of
every study appear at the top-left of every pane. Figure 7.23 shows the
detail from the prior chart, illustrating how the precise value (in this
case, from the 15-day moving average) is provided just beneath the data
line.

P1:OTA
c07 JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 9:38 Printer:Yettocome
154 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
FIGURE 7.21 Whateverstudysetsyouhavecreatedinthetechnicalstudieseditor
willalsoshowupalphabeticallyintheMyStudySetsmodule.
COMPARING CHARTS
Comparingonecharttoanotherisoneofthemostvaluablewaystocom-
pareperformance across markets. You might want tocompare astock to
the market in general, or one commodity to another, or a mutual fund to
abroadstockmarketindex,orevenmultiplesecuritiestogether(suchas
fivedifferentstocksallatonce).Beingabletocomparegivesyouawayto
viewrelativeperformancebetweendifferentfinancialinstruments.
FIGURE 7.22 Thischarthasthreeoverlaidstudiesandtwoindependentstudies,
andintheupper-leftcornerofeachpaneisalegendshowingthevalues.

P1:OTA
c07 JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 9:38 Printer:Yettocome
MultipleStudiesandComparisons 155
FIGURE 7.23 If you have selected FIGURE 7.24 To compare the cur-
ShowLastValuefromtheTechnicalStud- rent chart to another security, select
ies dialog box, then the most recent Comparison Chart from the Chart Set-
value for each study you are using will tingsmenu.
beshowninthelegend.
Therearetwobasickindsofcomparison:priceandpercentage.Aprice
comparison plots two or more securities into a price pane, showing their
actual pricesover therequested periodof time.Because thepricesmight
be very different (for example, comparing a stock of about $3 to another
ofabout$80),thiscanoftenyieldagraphthatisnotveryuseful.Theother
kindofcomparisonisapercentagecomparison,whichismuchmorecom-
mon, since it illustrates the percentage change in price over a certain pe-
riodoftime,irrespectiveofthepriceofthesecurities.
Onceyouhaveasinglesecuritychart,youcancomparethissecurityto
oneormoreothersbychoosingComparisonChartfromtheChartSettings
menu(Figure7.24).
When you do this, the Comparison Chart dialog box appears (Figure
7.25).Initarethesecontrols:
(cid:1)
Index selection. A list of major U.S. indexes is presented. You can
double-clickanyoneofthesetoaddittothelistofitemsthatshould
becompared.Indexsymbolsareoftenstrangeandhardtoremember,
sothislistmakesitconvenienttochooseanindex.

P1:OTA
c07 JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 9:38 Printer:Yettocome
156 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
FIGURE 7.25 WhenusingtheComparisonChartfunction,choosefromalistof
Indexesorenteryourownsymbolsforthecomparison.
(cid:1)
Enter a symbol entry box.Thisiswhereyoucanenteranyvalidsym-
bol that you want. It can be anything chartable—an index, a stock, a
mutualfund,acommodity,anoption—justtypeinthesymbolandclick
AddSymbol,anditwillbeaddedtotheDisplayedItemslist.
(cid:1)
Displayed items. These are the items which will be compared to the
original security charted. There may be anywhere from zero items
(normalchart,nocomparisons)tomultipleitemsinthisbox.Youcan

P1:OTA
c07 JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 9:38 Printer:Yettocome
MultipleStudiesandComparisons 157
eraseeverythingtostartoverbyclickingDeleteAll,orifyouwantto
getridofjustoneitem,clickonitandclickDelete.
(cid:1)
Comparison type. The radio buttons, Percentage Comparison and
PriceComparison,controlwhatkindofcomparisonwillbedone.Per-
centageisthedefault,sincethatisusuallymoreuseful.
Figure 7.26 shows that the S&P 100 has been added, as well as the
symbol IWM. The list of symbols in the lower portion of the dialog box
FIGURE 7.26 TheComparisonChartdialogboxletsyouentermultipleitemsso
thatyoucancomparemanyothersecuritiestotheoriginalonecharted.

P1:OTA
c07 JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 9:38 Printer:Yettocome
158 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
FIGURE 7.27 APercentageComparisonisthedefaultfortheComparisonfunc-
tion,sinceit’stypicallythemostusefulwaytocomparevarioussecurities,irrespec-
tiveoftheirprices.
will appear in alphabetical order, and as you add symbols, you will see
theresultingcomparisonchartinstantlyinthebackground.Whenyouare
done,youcanclicktheClosebutton.
Figure 7.27 illustrates a percentage comparison. The original security
plottedwastheNASDAQ100ETF(symbolQQQQ).Twootheritemswere
added via the Comparison function: the S&P 100 (symbol $OEX) and the
Russell 2000 ETF (symbol IWM). These symbols and their most recent
price values appear just underneath the data line. The chart clearly illus-
trates how one of these items has widely outperformed the others (as in
the rest of this book, the colors used are not reproduced in these black
andwhitecharts,butProphetChartsdoesmakeampleuseofcolortohelp
distinguishoneitemfromanother).
ThesamecomparisonchartdonewithaPricecomparisonlooksvery
different.BecausetheS&P100indexwasatavalueofabout600,whereas
both the IWM and QQQQ were well under 100, the three graphs get very
flattened (Figure 7.28), since they are scaled based on the lowest and
highest values among all three securities. This kind of chart distortion
makessuchagraphalmostuseless.Therearecertainlyexampleswherea
Pricecomparisonwouldbeuseful,butthosewouldalmostalwaysinvolve
similarly-pricedinstruments.

P1:OTA
c07 JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 9:38 Printer:Yettocome
MultipleStudiesandComparisons 159
FIGURE 7.28 Unlessthesecuritiesyouarecomparinghavesimilarprices,itprob-
ably doesn’t make sense to do a Price Comparison, since the scales will be very
distorted.
THE LEFT-SCALE AXIS
There is one other way to compare securities that is in many ways more
useful and powerful than using prices or percentages. Very few charting
systemsintheworlddoit,anditiscalledLeftScalecharting.
Whatthatmeansisthattwosecuritiesarecompared,andoneofthem
is based on a price axis on the right side of the chart and the second is
basedonapriceaxisontheleftsideofthechart.Thesescalesarecustom-
fittedtotheirrespectivesecurities,whichmeansthatevenifthepricesare
extremelydifferent,theresultingchartisreadableandundistortedbyprice
disparity.
Asanexampleofthis,considerthecomparisonbetweentheNASDAQ
100 ETF (symbol QQQQ) and one of its put options. For the sake of this
example, assume theQQQQispricedatabout $41 andthatone ofitsput
options(Figure7.29)ispricedinthe$1to$2range.
Ifyouwantedtocomparethegraphofthisputoptiontothegraphof
theunderlyingsecurity,themosteffectivewaytodoitwouldbewiththe
LeftPriceScaleChartoptioninChartSettings(Figure7.30).Unlikenormal

P1:OTA
c07 JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 9:38 Printer:Yettocome
160 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
FIGURE 7.29 Thisgraphshowsanoptionschartbyitself.Notetherelativelylow
priceonthey-axis.
Comparisoncharting,youmaycompareonlytwosecuritiesatatimewith
thisfunction.
All you need to do at this point is enter the symbol (Figure 7.31) that
should be plotted on the left scale. You do not have to compare similar
instruments (such as a stock versus a stock). The two securities can be
anythingthatisotherwisechartable.
Before examining the result, let us see what a similar comparison
wouldyieldwiththenormalComparison functiontounderstand theben-
efitsofthisfeature.Figure7.32showsapercentagecomparisonofQQQQ
versus the put option. As you can see, the put option is far more volatile
FIGURE 7.30 To add another financial instrument and have its own y-axis ap-
plied,selectAddLeftPriceScaleChartfromtheChartSettingsmenu.

P1:OTA
c07 JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 9:38 Printer:Yettocome
MultipleStudiesandComparisons 161
FIGURE 7.31 YoucanenteranykindofsymbolintotheLeft-Axischart,suchas
anoption,anindex,acommodity,orastock.
(witharangeoffromminus55percenttoplus30percentinthisshorttime
range),whereastheQQQQonlybudgesapercentortwo.It’sasomewhat
interestingchartonlyintherespectthatitshowshowmuchmorevolatile
an option is than its underlying stock, but you aren’t going to learn much
morefromsuchachart.
Thesamecomparisondonebasedonpriceisevenlessuseful(Figure
7.33).TheQQQQisattheverytopofthechart,clingingclosetothe$42.50
price,whiletheoptionbouncesalongatthebottomofthechartinthe$1
to $2 range. Because the scale is so distorted, both graphs are rendered
virtuallymeaningless.
FIGURE 7.32 Comparinganoptiontoitsunderlyingsecuritywithapercentage
comparisonisnotuseful,sincetheoptionisalmostcertainlygoingtobedramatic.

P1:OTA
c07 JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 9:38 Printer:Yettocome
162 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
FIGURE 7.33 Acomparisongraphbasedonpriceoftwoverydifferently-priced
securitiesyieldsagraphwhichisnotatalluseful.
FIGURE 7.34 Byusingtwodifferenty-axisscales,ProphetChartsisabletodisplay
twodisparatekindsoffinancialinstrumentsinaformthatisstillusefulinspiteof
theirdifferentprices.

P1:OTA
c07 JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 9:38 Printer:Yettocome
MultipleStudiesandComparisons 163
But the Left Scale graph (Figure 7.34) does away with the price dis-
paritybyhavingeachsecuritydependonitsown,independentscale.The
pricerangeontheleft(from80centstonearly$2.70)andthepricerange
on the right (from $40.50 to $42.70) give both graphs the room they need
topresentthemselvesand,tonosurprise,thegraphsareinverselyrelated
(one graph being a put option, in this case). Note that in the Option Con-
trols module, the Compare with Stock checkbox automatically loads the
stockchartcorrespondingtoanoptionchart.Itdoesthisbytakingadvan-
tageoftheLeftScalefeature.
SUMMARY
Both Chapters 6 and 7 have been devoted to mathematical studies and
chart comparison, and you are now equipped to do some extremely so-
phisticated charts. As we head into Chapter 8, we will refocus on drawn
objects,withourinitialconcentrationbeingontrendlines,oneofthemost
basicbutessentialtoolsofsecuritiescharting.

P1:OTA
c08 JWBT295-Knight May25,2010 10:35 Printer:Yettocome
C H A P T E R 8
Trendlines and
Reversals
T
rendlinesareverybasic—butverypowerful—drawnobjectsthatcan
beplacedontoachart.InthecontextofProphetCharts,adrawnob-
jectisanitemthatisaddedtoacharttoprovideinsightintolikelyfu-
turepricebehavior,usuallybyindicatingsupportorresistancelevels.You
willexploreavarietyofdrawnobjectsinthisandcomingchapters,buta
solid knowledge of the use and interpretation of trendlines is essential to
yoursuccessasatechnicalanalyst.
Thepropertiesofawell-drawntrendlineareasfollows:
(cid:1)
It connects at least two points of a graph (with high points or low
points),andthemorepointsittouches,themorevalidandusefulthe
lineis.
(cid:1)
Itisneverviolatedbypricesbetweenthestartingandendingpoints;in
other words, all of the stock prices are either below the trendline (in
whichcasethelineisresistance)orabovethetrendline(inwhichcase
thelineissupport).
Atrendline’spurposedependsonyourpositionwithaparticularstock.
Ifyouhaveapositioninastock,thetrendline’svalueistoensurethatthe
trendofthestockisintact(Figure8.1),sothatwhenthetrendisviolated,
youexityourpositionasprofitablyaspossible.Ifyoudonothaveaposi-
tioninastock,thepurposeofatrendlineistoshowyouwhenapossible
trendchangehastakenplacesothatyoucanconsidertakingapositionin
thestock.
164

P1:OTA
c08 JWBT295-Knight May25,2010 10:35 Printer:Yettocome
TrendlinesandReversals 165
FIGURE 8.1 This trendline, going back for years, is intact for this stock during
itsclimbfrom$27.50toover$100.
Drawingatrendlineisverysimpleformostpeople,sincelayingdown
a straight line to “bound” the uptrend or downtrend of a stock makes in-
tuitive sense. The art, however, is discerning when to redraw a trendline,
becauseasastockmoves,itmaybecomeappropriatetoredrawatrendline
totakeintoaccountthemorecompletepricedata.Thedanger,ofcourse,
isthatyoucanwindupfoolingyourself.Ifyourtrendlinesbecomesoelas-
ticthattheybendandmovenomatterwhichdirectionpricesareheading,
thenyouhaveeliminatedtheirvalue.
Figure 8.2 illustrates this point. It shows the astonishing climb of
Hansen Natural (HANS) from $2 to more than 100 times that amount.
The trendline on this chart looks extremely clean, because the price
stayed above it at all times and, indeed, usually was well above it except
for the two “touchpoints” at the beginning of the graph and about two-
thirds of the way from the left side. But as you can see, until the sec-
ond touchpoint was established, the trendline would have been steeper,
so the original trendline would have been crossed to the downside, in-
dicating a possible trend change. In retrospect we can see that the
trend certainly did not change, as the stock continued to soar hundreds
ofpercent.

P1:OTA
c08 JWBT295-Knight May25,2010 10:35 Printer:Yettocome
166 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
FIGURE 8.2 HansenNaturalclimbedfrom$2toover$200overthecourseofa
coupleofyears,anditneverviolateditsascendingtrendline.
When prices violate a trendline, however, it should normally be
heeded.Toillustratethispoint,imagineyourselfdrivingacardownade-
serted highway. Since you want to understand the concept of trendlines
well,youdecidetonotlookattheroadaheadbutsimplyopenyourdoor
andkeepyoureyeonthemedianline.Youhavenoideahowtheroadwill
twistorturnorwhetheritwillcontinuestraight.
Forawhile,theyellowlinewhizzesbymoreorlessinthesameplace.
It sometimes moves a little away from the car, but it soon returns to be
just outside the driver’s door. Suddenly, the median line moves under-
neath your car, disappearing from sight. You’d better look up quickly to
seewhat’shappening,becausetheroadmustbeturning!
That’s sort of what trendlines are like (although not nearly as
dangerous—atleastinthephysicalsense).Theyprovidealinethatprices
should stay above (if the line is support) or below (if resistance), and if
prices should stray across the trendline, something has changed. As with
yourcar,itdoesn’tnecessarilymeanacrashisahead,butyou’dbetterstart
payingbetterattention.
One instance where a crash certainly did happen is Yahoo! in early
2000. Yahoo! had soared hundreds of percent during the Internet bubble

P1:OTA
c08 JWBT295-Knight May25,2010 10:35 Printer:Yettocome
TrendlinesandReversals 167
FIGURE 8.3 AstheInternetbubbleofthelate1990sended,Yahoo!violatedits
ascendingtrendlineearlyinApril2000.Ittriedtorecover,butoncethetrendwas
broken,thedamagewasdone.
of the late 1990s. Figure 8.3 shows how Yahoo! peaked at about $125 on
thefirstdayofthe2000tradingyear,thenitstartingsoftening.Afterlosing
about 40 percent of its value, it started firming up again, making a small
saucerpattern,thenitreweakened.
On the first trading day of April, 2000, the price briefly pierced the
long-term trendline, only to recover. A few days later, prices clearly
slippedbeneaththetrendline.At this point, the line which formerly had
beensupportnowhadbecomeresistance.Thisisavitalconcept,sincethe
“turncoat”natureoftrendlinesisakeypartoftheirvalue.
Just because the trendline was broken doesn’t mean Yahoo! immedi-
atelycollapsed.Butitdidmeanthatthestockwasnolongerinadefinedup-
trend.Paradoxically,stocksthatbreaktheiruptrendscanstillmovehigher
in price, as you will learn later in this chapter. In Yahoo!’s case (Figure
8.4), the price firmed up for a couple of months and then started falling
evenmore.Beforeitwasallover,Yahoo!hadlostmorethan97percentof
itspeakvalue.
AsimilarchartduringthesametimeperiodcanbeseeninFigure8.5,
which shows theS&P500 exchange-traded fund(symbol SPY,commonly

P1:OTA
c08 JWBT295-Knight May25,2010 10:35 Printer:Yettocome
168 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
FIGURE 8.4 Followingtheviolationofitstrendline,Yahoo!collapsed,losingal-
mostitsentirevalue.
FIGURE 8.5 HereistheSPYoveraperiodclosetoadecade.Itsascendingtrend-
linewasintactfrom1994through2000,butonceitwasviolated,thefallthatfol-
lowedwassevere.

P1:OTA
c08 JWBT295-Knight May25,2010 10:35 Printer:Yettocome
TrendlinesandReversals 169
known as the “spiders”). The ascending trendline is quite long, beginning
inlate1994andbeingviolatedintheautumnof2000.Afterpricescracked
below the trendline, the decline was swift and terrible. This illustrates an
importantprinciplewithtrendlines:thelengthofthetrendlineisastrong
indicator of how meaningful the trend change will be once that line
has been crossed. A trendline spanning 10 days is probably meaningless,
whereasatrendlinespanningtenyearsisterriblyimportant.
You certainly don’t have to look just at the Internet bubble to
find examples of trendline violations and their aftermath. Krispy Kreme
(Figure 8.6), the makers of incredibly delicious (particularly when fresh)
doughnuts was the darling of 2000 and 2001. It held onto that distinction
since virtually every other stock was getting clobbered. Perhaps people
weregobblingdowndoughnutstodistractthemselvesfromtheirsorrows
of this major bear market. In any event, as the Atkins diet craze started
gatheringmomentum,Krispystartingtoweaken.
Late in 2003, KKD broke below its trendline. Had you been long this
stock,youwouldhavealreadysuffereda20percentlossfromthestock’s
peak.Butthevalueoftrendlinesisn’tthattheyguaranteeyouwillmakeas
FIGURE 8.6 Krispy Kreme was one of the very few stocks that went up during
2000 and 2001. It violated its trendline late in 2003 and quickly lost most of its
value.

P1:OTA
c08 JWBT295-Knight May25,2010 10:35 Printer:Yettocome
170 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
muchprofitaspossible.Instead,theytrytogiveyouasmuchtimeaspos-
sible to remain in a position before being given evidence that you should
getout.Sointhiscase,eventhoughthestockhadalreadyfallenfrom$50
to$40beforeyouwerewarned,thiswarningatleastwouldhaveprevented
you from holding on to the later price of $4, a 90 percent drop from the
trendlineviolation.
As mentioned earlier in this chapter, a stock doesn’t necessarily
collapse because it has broken below its trendline (keep in mind prices
canbreakabovetrendlinesaswell,butforthisintroduction,wewillfocus
on breakdowns). After a price crosses below a trendline, the price can
(a)goup,(b)godown,or(c)gosideways.There’sreallynowaytoknow
forsure!Butthetrendlineatleastprovidesalikelyindicationofwhatthe
stockwilldonext.
TakeDiebold,forinstance(Figure8.7),whichfellbelowitstrendline
in early 1984. Had you sold right away, you would have received about
$6.50 per share for your stock. However, it slowly climbed its way to
$8, more than a 20 percent increase in value. But this is the important
point: The stock did not cross above its trendline again. It clung to it,
inchinghigher,stayingjustbeneathitsnewfoundresistancelevel.Itfinally
FIGURE 8.7 Astockcanbreakitstrendlineandstillgoupinprice.Dieboldfell
belowitstrendlineearlyin1984,thenitclimbedhigherforthefirsthalfoftheyear.
Itfailedtocrossbackoveritstrendline,however,andsubsequentlyfellhard.

P1:OTA
c08 JWBT295-Knight May25,2010 10:35 Printer:Yettocome
TrendlinesandReversals 171
FIGURE 8.8 Atrendlinebreakcanprecedethecreationofadifferentpattern.In
thiscase,afterClevelandCliffsbrokeitstrendline,itformedaheadandshoulders
pattern,whichstrengthenedthebearishcase.
succumbed andfelloverthenextyearto$4.50,losingabout halfitspeak
value.
As you learn about other drawn objects (such as channels, retrace-
ments, horizontal lines, and so on), you will see how to combine them to
performmorecomplexanalyses.Figure8.8showsClevelandCliffs(CLF)
dipping beneath its trendline. In retrospect, when it did this, it was about
halfwaythroughthejobofcreatingwhatisknownasaheadandshoulders
pattern,highlightedherebytheuseofahorizontalline.
Nowthatyouhavethegeneralideaastowhatconstitutesatrendline
andwhyitisuseful,it’stimetolearnhowtomaketheminProphetCharts.
USING THE TOOL
UsinganydrawnobjectinProphetChartsbeginswiththeselectionofthe
toolyouwantfromthetoolbar(Figure8.9).Thetoolbar’sdefaultlocation
is in the lower-left portion of the price pane, although you can drag-and-
dropthetoolbartoanyothersideorevenhaveit“float”separatefromthe
chartarea.

P1:OTA
c08 JWBT295-Knight May25,2010 10:35 Printer:Yettocome
172 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
FIGURE 8.9 Thetoolbarcontainsallthedrawingtools,includingthetrendline,
whichisthethirdfromtheleft.
The tools are, from left to right: pointer, expansion, trendline, chan-
nels, horizontal line, text, oval highlight, rectangle highlight, Fibonacci
retracements, Fibonacci time series, Fibonacci arcs, and Fibonacci fans.
Thetrendlinetool,thethirdfromtheleft,istheoneyouwanttoclick.
Onceyouhaveselectedthetrendlinetool,allyouneedtodotodraw
a trendline is (1) click on the point where you want the line to begin, (2)
drag the mouse, during which time the line will be displayed, no matter
whereyoumovethemouse,and(3)clickasecondtime,whichcompletes
thecreationoftheline.
Anytrendlineyoudrawhasanumberofproperties,anyoneofwhich
canbechanged:color,style,andextension.Youwilllearnhowtoalterthe
colorandstylelaterinthischapter,butletustakeamomenttounderstand
theconceptoftrendlineextension.
Youmayrecallfromgeometrythedistinctionbetweenalinesegment
andaray.Alinesegmentisafinitelinethathastwoendpoints.Arayhas
one endpoint and continues into infinity. And a line, just to complete the
review,goesinfinitelyinbothdirections.
Inthecaseoftrendlines,youwillapplyeitheralinesegmentoraray.
Usingarayismorecommon,sinceyouarewatchingpricesonanongoing
basis,andthetrendwillextendofftherightedgeofthechart.Usingaline
segmentismoreappropriateinthecaseofpriortrends,sincethetrendhas
alreadychangedandthereisnoreasontoclutteryourchartwithalinethat
continuesgoingpastthetrend’send.
In order to choose whether you want to extend the line or not, you
use the Extend option. This option is available for a number of drawn
objects, but the principle is the same for all of them: Extend makes the
drawnobjectcontinueforwardintime,allthewaytotherightmostedgeof
thechart.
Noticehowthepointerchangesintoahandwhenyoumovethemouse
overthedrawnobject.Thisisthesignalthatyoucanright-clicktomodify
thatparticularobject.ToaccessExtend,right-clickonanytrendline,which
creates the popup menu shown inFigure 8.10, and choose Extend. Ifitis
checked, the line will be extended into a ray. If it is unchecked, the line
will exist only between its two endpoints. You can toggle back and forth
betweenthesesettingsforanygiventrendline(itdoesnotaffectanyothers
elsewhere).

P1:OTA
c08 JWBT295-Knight May25,2010 10:35 Printer:Yettocome
TrendlinesandReversals 173
FIGURE 8.10 Right-clickingonatrendlineyieldsapopupmenuwithanumber
ofcommandchoices.
Letustakeanopportunitytoconsiderseveralimportantpropertiesof
the popup menu. These four general rules are important to effective and
efficientuseofanyofthedrawnobjects.
1. Toaccessthepopupmenuthatcontrolsoneparticulardrawnobject,
right-clickonthatobject.
2. Changes made to that object affect that object and no others. You
therefore need not be concerned that you will alter any of the other
trendlines(oranyotherkindofobject,forthatmatter)byalteringone
ofthem.
3. However, when you draw another drawn object—in this case, a
trendline—ProphetChartswillusethemostrecentsettingssinceitas-
sumesthatiswhatyouwanttouse.Sowhatevercolor,style,andex-
tension choice you last made will be applied to all subsequent trend-
linesuntilyouchangethosesettingsagain.
4. Everysingleobjectonachartcanbecompletelyunique.Eachandev-
eryobjectcanbecoloreddifferently,styleddifferently,andextended
differently.Althoughyoucanpreservethesettingsyouhavechosento
saveyourselftimewhendrawingadditionalobjects,itisusefultokeep
inmindtheuniquenessofeverydrawnobject,sincethosedistinctions
canhelpmakeacharteasiertoreadandinterpret.
AnotherselectiononthepopupmenuisMove.TheMovefunctionre-
veals the two handles on the trendline, thus allowing you to change the
location of the trendline. The existence of these handles is probably the
single most powerful and useful feature of all the drawn objects, so it is
crucialtounderstandtheirpurpose.

P1:OTA
c08 JWBT295-Knight May25,2010 10:35 Printer:Yettocome
174 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
FIGURE 8.11 Double-clickingonatrendlinegivesyouaccesstothetwohandles,
whichallowforcarefulplacementoftheline.
The handles of any drawn object are the places where the endpoints
were established. Once you draw a trendline, only the line is shown, and
nospecialmarkisgiventotheendpoints.However,onceyouselectMove
from the popup menu (or once you double-click on the trendline, which
is actually a faster way to achieve the same thing), the two handles will
appearassmallsquares(Figure8.11).
When you point your mouse to a handle, the mouse pointer changes
fromanarrowtoahand,indicatingitisreadyforyoutomovethehandle.
You can drag the handle anywhere in the chart that you like. One of the
reasons this is so useful is that you can create very precisely laid trend-
lines, which is important to good charting (Figure 8.12). You might want
tomakesurethatthe“SnaptoOHLCvaluesduringdrawing”checkboxis
checked in the preferences menu (see Figure 3.18 back in Chapter 3) to
makepreciseplacementofhandleseasier.
Ifyoupointatthetrendlinebutdonotclickanybutton(thisisknown
as a “mouseover”), then information about the trendline will appear as a
tool tip (Figure 8.13). This tool tip will identify the object (in this case,
“Trendline”) as well as the starting and ending values of the endpoints in
termsofbothpriceanddate.
Thereisusuallyavarietyofwaystogettothesamefunction,inorder
to save time. The ability to alter a trendline’s style, color, or extension is

P1:OTA
c08 JWBT295-Knight May25,2010 10:35 Printer:Yettocome
TrendlinesandReversals 175
FIGURE 8.12 You can zoom in to the handle of a trendline to ensure precise
placement.
FIGURE 8.13 Whenyoumouseovera FIGURE 8.14 By clicking on the
trendline,atooltipwillappearidentify- small triangle in the trendline tool you
ingtheobjectaswellasitsstartingand canaccessthefeaturesofthetool.
endingpoints.
available through right-clicking the line as well as clicking the trendline
tool itself (Figure 8.14). There are two ways to access the popup menu
using the trendline tool: You can either hold down the mouse button on
thetoolforafewmoments,oryoucanclickthesmalltriangleinthetool’s
lower-rightcornertogetinstantaccess.
Youcanalsoaccess manyofthefunctions ofthetoolbarthroughthe
DrawingToolsmenuitself(Figure8.15).Thechoicesonthismenuprovide
thefunctionsshowninTable8.1.
CHANGING COLOR AND STYLE
FlexibilityisoneofProphetCharts’mainadvantages,andoneexampleof
this is that you can alter the color and style of any individual object on
anychart.Asyouareapplyingdrawnobjects,whateversettingsyoumost
recently used for that tool will be applied until such time as you either
customizethattoolormodifyanindividualobjectthatyoudrewearlier.
To alter the color or style of a trendline you’ve already drawn,
right-click on the trendline and choose “Change Style/Color” from the

P1:OTA
c08 JWBT295-Knight May25,2010 10:35 Printer:Yettocome
176 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
FIGURE 8.15 TheDrawingToolsmenualsoprovidesaccesstoanyofthedrawn
objectsandtheirsettings.
popup menu. A dialog box (Figure 8.16) will appear with the following
elements:
(cid:1)
Sample—This shows what the trendline will look like based on the
settings. As you change settings, this sample will update to reflect
those changes. Think of it as a preview of what your trendline will
looklike.

P1:OTA
c08 JWBT295-Knight May25,2010 10:35 Printer:Yettocome
TrendlinesandReversals 177
TABLE8.1 DrawingToolsFunctions
Snapto Thisiseithercheckedorunchecked,whichindicateswhether
ornothandleswillsnaptoOHLC(open,high,low,orclose)
values.Youalterthissettingeitherhereorthroughthe
Preferencesmenu.Itisrecommendedthatyouleavethis
checked,sincedoingsomakeslayingdownprecise
trendlinesmucheasier.Ifyouwouldprefertohavetotal
free-formcontrolovertheplacementoftrendlines,you
shoulduncheckthisbox.Otherwise,pricepointsinbars
willattractthehandlesofyourtrendlineslikemagnets.
HideTools Ifyoudonotwanttoseethetoolbar,youcanchoosethis
setting,whichwillputacheckmarknexttoit.Theonly
reasonyouwouldwanttodosowouldbetofreeupalittle
morespaceforthechart.Keepinmindyoudonot
necessarilyhavetoleavethetoolbarwhereitis.Youcan
clickonthehandleofthetoolbar,locatedonitsleftedge,
anddragthetoolbartoanyedgeofthechartorhaveit
free-floatingforquickaccess.
Undo ProphetChartsprovidestheabilitytoundoyourlastaction
(andthatactionwillaltertheexactwordingofthismenu
item;forinstance,itmightreadUndoLastDeletionifyou
mostrecentlydeletedanobject).Therewillbemanytimes
thatyouaccidentallydosomethingthatyourealizewasa
mistake,andbyselectingUndooritskeyboardequivalent,
Ctrl-Z,ProphetChartswillundotheaction.
PointerTool Thisisthedefaulttool,whichisjustthemousecursor.The
Pointerdoesn’talterthegraphinanyway;itsimplyletsyou
movethemousearoundandtakeactions.ThePointerisby
defaulttheselection,andchoosinganyothertool(suchas
Trendline)temporarilydeselectsthischoice.Onceyouhave
finisheddrawingyourobject,thePointerwillbeselected
onceagain.
PointerGuides Youhavefourchoicesforwhatappearswhereverthecursor
goes:None,Vertical,Horizontal,orCrosshair.Youcan
thereforehaveahorizontallineonly,averticallineonly,
both,orneitherasyoumoveyourmousearound.Most
peopleleavetheverticallineon,usingthecrosshairchoice
whentheyaretryingtomakeaveryprecisejudgmenton
bothtimeandprice.Ifyoufindthelinesbothersomeor
annoying,youchangethistoNone.
ZoomIn Thiszoomsinontherightmost50percentofthechart.The
keyboardequivalentisCtrl-Plus.Ifyouwanttozoominon
aprecisepartofthechart,justclick-and-dragwiththe
mouse.UsingZoomInrepeatedlywillhomeincloserand
closertothemostrecentdata.
(Continued)

P1:OTA
c08 JWBT295-Knight May25,2010 10:35 Printer:Yettocome
178 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
TABLE8.1 (Continued)
ZoomOut ThisdoestheoppositeofZoomIn,sinceitdoublesthe
amountoftimeyouareviewing(untilyouseeallthedata
thatyoufetchedinthefirstplace,atwhichtimethismenu
choicebecomesgrayedout).Thekeyboardequivalentis
Ctrl-Minus.
Unzoom Tounzoomallthewayandseeallofthedatayouhave
fetchedforthechart,youcanchoosethisfunctionor,for
thesameresult,double-clickanywhereinsidethechart.
ResizeGraph Thisallowsyoutochangehowmuchofthechartspaceis
dedicatedtothechartitself.Thisfunctioniscoveredin
detailinChapter9.
Varioustools Thereare10differenttoolchoices,thefirstofwhichis
Trendline.Choosinganyoftheseselectionsisthe
equivalentofchoosingthetooliconwithinthetoolbar.A
checkmarkwillappearnexttowhatevertooliscurrently
selected(whichmaybethePointerGuides,previously
described).
Customize Thisbringsupasubmenuofthesame10toolssothatyou
canselectthetoolwhosesettingsyouwanttocustomize.
Theequivalentactioncanbeperformedbyholdingdown
themousebuttonontopofthetoolyouwanttocustomize
orclickingonthesmalltriangleinthelower-rightcornerof
anyofthetooliconsquares.
DeleteAllDrawings Thisdeletesallofthedrawnobjectsonthecurrently
displayedgraph.Itwillnotaffectthedrawnobjectsonany
othercharts.Ifyouusethisaccidentally,youcanreverse
thedamagebychoosingtheUndocommand.Takenote
thatwhenyouright-clickonanydrawnobject,this
commandisalsoavailableinthepopupmenu,aswellas
anothercommand—Delete—whichwilldeleteonlythe
currentlyselectedobject.
(cid:1)
Color—Thisshowsthecoloryouhaveselected.Byclickingthissmall
box,apaletteof15colorchoiceswillappear.Youcanclickonanyof
thesecolorchoicestochangethecoloroftheselectedtrendline.
(cid:1)
Opacity—This is a number ranging from 0.1 to 1 that dictates how
transparent or not the trendline is. An opacity setting of 1 means the
trendlinewillbeasolidlineandnothingcanbeseenthroughit.Atthe
other extreme, an opacity setting of .1 would result in an extremely
faintlinethroughwhichotherobjectscanbeseen.Asyoubecomean
expertuserofProphetCharts,youwilldevelopyourownpreferences
forhowboldcertainobjectsappear.

P1:OTA
c08 JWBT295-Knight May25,2010 10:35 Printer:Yettocome
TrendlinesandReversals 179
FIGURE 8.16 Changing the color FIGURE 8.17 ClickingonthePattern
andstyleofatrendlinecanbedonewith dropdown shows the patterns available
thisdialogbox. forthetrendlineselected.
(cid:1)
Weight—This controls how thick the line is. Clicking on this lets you
choose from a dropdown menu of five different weights. If you want
linestobeheavyandeasytosee,chooseaheavierweight.
(cid:1)
Pattern—Clickingonthis(Figure8.17)yieldsadropdownofthreedif-
ferentpatternstyles(solid,dotted,anddashed).Mostpeopleusesolid
trendlines, but you may want to use different line styles to indicate
differentmeaningsoflinesonthechart.
There also is a checkbox at the bottom of the dialog box that reads,
“Saveasdefaulttrendlinestyle.”Ifyoucheckthis,allthefuturetrendlines
youdrawwithProphetChartswillusethesesamesettingsunlessyoualter
themlater.
HISTORICAL CHART EXAMPLES
Understandingthemechanicsofcreatingtrendlinesisimportant,butmore
important is the knowledge of how to apply trendlines well. Part of this
comes from taking care to follow the rules cited earlier in this chapter
aboutthepropertiesoftrendlines.Butmostofitcomesfromexperience,
andyoucangainexperienceyourselforbylearningabouttheexperiences
ofothers.Thischapterseekstohelpyouwiththelatter.
There is an adage about how a person can never step into the same
stream twice, and the reason is that the stream is constantly changing.
The markets are like that, which is why it is not possible to describe pre-
cisely what rules to follow when embellishing charts with drawn objects

P1:OTA
c08 JWBT295-Knight May25,2010 10:35 Printer:Yettocome
180 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
FIGURE 8.18 Multiple trendlines can work together to identify directional
changesinastock.
under all circumstances. You will gain proficiency—some may even say
artistry—abouthowyoumarkupyourchartsonlythroughtrial,error,and
experience.
Thisbookhashundredsofdifferentchartsfromactualmarkethistory
tohelpsaveyousomeofthechallengesoflearningthroughonlyyourexpe-
rience.Study thesechartsand theircommentary, nottoseekunbendable
rulesabout how trendlinesarelaiddown, but tounderstand thedifferent
circumstances and nuances to charts and what they demand of your ana-
lyticalskills.
Figure8.18illustrateshowchartsarecertainlynotlimitedtoonetrend-
line. In this case, two are used, and you could just as easily have three,
four,ormore.Youwanttoavoidwhatsomecallthe“pick-upstickseffect”
ofhavinglinesscatteredalloverthechart,becausethatjustcreatesnoise,
andwhatyouseekisclarity.Theoldsawthat“lessismore”certainlyap-
pliestogoodcharting.
The reasons for having multiple trendlines fall into two camps: to
show contrary trends (as was the case with Figure 8.18, which showed
a general uptrend and a shorter-lived downtrend) or to show varying de-
grees of momentum for a single trend, such as with Figure 8.19. In this
instance, which is a chart of the crude oil commodity market from 2001

P1:OTA
c08 JWBT295-Knight May25,2010 10:35 Printer:Yettocome
TrendlinesandReversals 181
FIGURE 8.19 Multiple trendlines can also help trace movements of different
strengthandlength.
through2006,thelowertrendlineshowsadecisiveuptrendthatspansvir-
tuallytheentiregraph,andthehighertrendlineshowshow,startinglatein
2003, the market accelerated even faster, resulting in a steeper trendline.
Both trendlines are valid, and both are useful. If the prices violated the
medium-termtrendline,thatwouldnegatethefasteruptrend,butitwould
notnegatethebroader,largeruptrenduntilsuchtimeasthattrendlinewas
itselfcrossed.
AsimilargraphisshowninFigure8.20,whichistheDowJonesIndus-
trialAverageoverafour-yearperiod.Theuptrendisfirmlyintact,evenwith
smaller ups and downs, and beginning in the autumn of 2005, the market
picksupevenmoresteam.
As you learn about other drawn objects, you will learn to apply dif-
ferent objects to the same chart to deepen your analysis, since chart ac-
tion is certainly more complex than “it’s going up” or “it’s going down.”
Figure8.21showsthatafteranascendingtrendlinewasviolated,theprices
actually moved higher quite substantially. In the course of doing so, they
hammeredoutasmallheadandshoulderspattern,thusprovidingtworea-
sons to sell the stock: (1) that it had broken beneath its ascending trend;

P1:OTA
c08 JWBT295-Knight May25,2010 10:35 Printer:Yettocome
182 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
FIGURE 8.20 This chart of the Dow 30 shows the long-term trendline and the
mediumtermtrendline,thelattershowinganincreaseinupwardmomentum.
(2)ithadformedabearishpattern.Followingthisconfirmation,thestock
lostabout25percentofitsvalueinjustafewweeks.
A more sophisticated example of the same concept is shown in
Figure8.22,whichisachartoftheDowJonesUtilitiesETF(symbolUTH).
Theuptrendlastedmanyyears,butwhenpricesbrokethetrendline,anew
patternbegantoform.
Aclose-upofthisgraph(Figure8.23)givesyoumoredetailastohow
thepricesshapedtheirnewpost-uptrendpattern.Thefirstthingyounotice
ishowthetrendlinedidtheclassic“supporttoresistance”metamorphosis.
Even though the fall through the trendline swiftly sent the stock to $107,
it recovered and climbed to about $120, nearly a new record high. But by
thenithadalreadyformedtheleftshoulderandtheheadofaclassichead

P1:OTA
c08 JWBT295-Knight May25,2010 10:35 Printer:Yettocome
TrendlinesandReversals 183
FIGURE 8.21 A variety of drawn objects can be used to identify the complex
mechanicsofastock’spriceaction.
FIGURE 8.22 Thisillustrateshowthepriceclungtothetrendlineevenaftersup-
porthadbeenviolated.

P1:OTA
c08 JWBT295-Knight May25,2010 10:35 Printer:Yettocome
184 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
FIGURE 8.23 This close-up view shows how the trendline changed its nature
fromsupporttoresistance.
andshoulderspattern.Itwentontoformtherightshoulder(two,actually)
andbrokedown.Simplystated,thepriceactionwasverymessyafterthe
trendlinewasbroken,andaholderofUTHwouldhavebeenwisetohave
quicklyclosedthepositionandtakenprofitsonthedaythetrendlinewas
violated.
Some more recent examples—Figures 8.24 through 8.29—further il-
lustrate what an important role support and resistance play in price
movement.
As you know, trendlines come inonly twoforms: resistance and sup-
port.Wewillnowfocusonresistancetrendlinesandtheirapplication.
RESISTANCE
Foratrendlinetorepresentresistance,itsimplyhastobeabovetheprices.
Itdoesn’tmatterifthestockisgoingupordown(althoughresistancedur-
ing a downtrend is more useful from a chartist’s perspective). So long as
thepricesaretrappedunderneath thetrendline,thattrendlinerepresents

P1:OTA
c08 JWBT295-Knight May25,2010 10:35 Printer:Yettocome
TrendlinesandReversals 185
FIGURE 8.24 TheUtilitiesindex,XLU,fellhardafterviolatingsupport(theupper
line)and,onceitstartedtoestablishabaseandtriedtorecover,hadtroublepushing
aboveresistance(thelowerline).
resistance,meaningthatbuyersdonothavethestrengthtopushitabove
theline.
Figure 8.30 offers a superb example of resistance with a downtrend-
ing market. This is the USD/CAD (that is, the foreign exchange mar-
ket of the U.S. dollar and Canadian dollar pair). At the beginning of
the graph, a Canadian dollar was worth about $1.58 in U.S. dollars. The
downtrend shown here was in place for years, erasing over a third of
Canadian purchasing power versus the U.S. Again and again, the prices
madeamovetowardtheresistancelevel,sometimesgettingclosetocross-
ing it, but they failed each time. This graph represents a staggering loss
in currency value, and a person short this position would have enjoyed
steadily mounting profits, knowing to get out only when the trend was
broken.
A trader positioned in a security can use trendlines for just such a
purpose—that is, “as long as the price is on the correct side of the line,
I’mfine.”ImaginehavingashortpositioninExpressScripts(ESRX)during
thetimeshowninFigure8.31.SupposeyoushortedthestockonMarch27
atabout$88pershare.Usingthedescendingtrendlineshownintheupper-
rightofthechart,youwouldbeassuredthatyourpositionwassafelyintact
aslongasthepricesremainedbelowtheline.Youmighthavehadaclose
scareinmid-Aprilwhenpricesgotclosetotheline,buttheydidnotviolate

P1:OTA
c08 JWBT295-Knight May25,2010 10:35 Printer:Yettocome
186 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
FIGURE 8.25 SymbolAPLsuccumbedtopricefailureatthehighhorizontalsup-
portlineandlaterstabilizedatalowerlevelwhichbecameanewsupportlevel.
it.Afterwards,theyeasedbackafewdollars,finallytumblingsignificantly
andprovidinganexcellentprofitonthetrade.Onesimpletrendlinewasall
ittooktoknowthatthepositionwasstillprudent.
Whenpricesdoviolatetheresistanceline—andtheyalmostcertainly
will,soonerorlater—itinformsyoubasedonyourpositionwiththestock.
If you have a position, it tells you to get out. And if you do not have a
position,ittellsyouthatyoumightwanttotakeadvantageofwhatmight
beatrendchange.

P1:OTA
c08 JWBT295-Knight May25,2010 10:35 Printer:Yettocome
TrendlinesandReversals 187
FIGURE 8.26 Honeywell,symbolHON,haditspricesboundedbybothsupport
andresistancelevels.Thelowerhorizontallineillustrateshowresistanceeventually
changeditsroleintosupport,oncethepricefinallypushedhigher.
A typical example of an upside break through resistance is shown in
Figure8.32,wherethepricesbumpeduprepeatedlyagainstthetrendline.
Finally,inonedecisivetradingsession,pricesblastedthroughthetrendline
andstayedconsistentlyhigher.
TherealpowerofthisisshowninFigure8.33,whichisamuchlonger-
rangeviewofthesamesecurity.WhatwasshowninFigure8.32wasonly
the rightmost portion of this graph. The push above the resistance line
was very significant, because resistance went back for years. This signal
would have provided an excellent indication that the trend had reversed
andwouldhaveprovidedagreatopportunitytotakeadvantageofthebig
upsurge in the NASDAQ market in 2003 and 2004. As usual, the trend re-
versaldidn’tpinpointtheexactbottom,butitcertainlyallowedfortremen-
dousprofitopportunityinspiteofthemarket’smodestrisethathadalready
takenplace.

P1:OTA
c08 JWBT295-Knight May25,2010 10:35 Printer:Yettocome
188 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
FIGURE 8.27 A stock’s “memory” about support and resistance levels can be
long-lived. Note how the important support level, the upper horizontal line, repre-
sentedresistanceoverayearlateraspricestriedtorecovertheiroldlevels.
A similar graph, with extremely dramatic positive results, is Primus
Telecommunications Group (Figure 8.34). The stock had suffered a terri-
ble downtrend, dropping from $52 to the realm of penny stocks. You can
see here that prices finally pushed above resistance. But note this well:
pricescontinuedtodrop.Ifyouhadboughtthisstock,youmayhavebeen
disappointedthattrendlinesdon’tworksowellafterall.
The seasoned chartist, however, would be watching the trendline
closely, even after it had been crossed, because the trendline now repre-
sentedsupport,sincethepriceswerehigherthantheline,notlower.What
is painful about this, of course, is that it sets no lower limit on how long

P1:OTA
c08 JWBT295-Knight May25,2010 10:35 Printer:Yettocome
TrendlinesandReversals 189
FIGURE 8.28 Akamai’s relationship with trendlines is complex. Here we see a
descendingtrendlinecreatingaformidableresistancezone,whereasthetwohori-
zontallinesaredemarcationlevelsfordescendingpriceranges.
FIGURE 8.29 TheratiooftheU.S.dollartotheCanadiandollar—alonger-term
versionofwhichisshowninFigure8.30—hadanexplosivemovehigher,butwhen
itfell,thepricestoppedshortattheformerresistancetrendline.

P1:OTA
c08 JWBT295-Knight May25,2010 10:35 Printer:Yettocome
190 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
FIGURE 8.30 The Canadian dollar’s long slide versus the U.S. dollar is shown
here,withtheresistingtrendlineneverbeingovercome.
FIGURE 8.31 Resistance trendlines can be invaluable in minimizing risk and
maximizingrewardwithyourtrading.

P1:OTA
c08 JWBT295-Knight May25,2010 10:35 Printer:Yettocome
TrendlinesandReversals 191
FIGURE 8.32 When a price breaks through a descending trendline, the change
indirectioncanbefastandpowerful.
toholdontothestock.Pricescanremainabovethetrendlinealltheway
to $0, so you might want to apply other criteria to how long you would
hangontothetrade(inthisinstance,youmayhaveputinastop-lossorder
just below the lifetime low of the stock, at least assuring you would get
somethingbackandnotridethestockallthewaytobankruptcy).
Infact,suchastrategywouldhaveworkedwell.Asyoucansee,even
though the stock continued to fall for a few months after crossing above
thetrendline,itbegantocomposeitselfandstartedarisewellover1,000
percent.Thepatientchartistwouldhavebeenhandsomelyrewardedwith
thisposition.
Theimportanceofhowtrendlinesactasa“turncoat”(reversingroles)
cannot be over-emphasized. A fine example is Figure 8.35, which is the
Ultra Short OTC Fund from ProFunds. This is a really interesting mutual

P1:OTA
c08 JWBT295-Knight May25,2010 10:35 Printer:Yettocome
192 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
FIGURE 8.33 ThisshowstheNASDAQbottominginlate2002,atwhichtimethe
indexpusheditswayaboveitsverylongdescendingtrendline.
FIGURE 8.34 Thisstockwentupwellover1,000percentafteritpusheditsway
throughresistance.

P1:OTA
c08 JWBT295-Knight May25,2010 10:35 Printer:Yettocome
TrendlinesandReversals 193
FIGURE 8.35 Asecuritycancontinuetodecline,evenwhenitstrendlinechanges
fromresistancetosupport.
fund,becauseitisadouble-inverseindexfund.Whatthatmeansisthatifa
particularmarket(inthiscase,theNASDAQ100)goesdown1percent,the
value of the fund goes twice as far the opposite direction (up 2 percent).
Soinabearmarket,afundlikethisprovidesanopportunityforpeopleto
stillincreasetheirportfolio’svalue.
Thisgraphshowsthefundduringarelativelybullishphaseofthestock
market, when the fund’s value declined from $97.50 to below $15. Notice
howonthreeseparateoccasionsthepricesjustbarely“kissed”thetrend-
line, only tobe repelled each time. Afterthe thirdkiss, prices got enough
strengthtopushthroughtotheotherside,allowingthefundtoformabas-
ingpatternandstabilizeatabout$15.
Now let’s examine the opposite effect—a stock in an uptrend that
breaksbeneathit.
BREAKS TO THE DOWNSIDE
Stocksinanuptrendthatviolatethattrendprovideasignalforbullstoget
out of the stock and for bears to consider selling the stock short. All the
rulescitedforbreakingthroughupsideresistanceapply,onlyinreverse.

P1:OTA
c08 JWBT295-Knight May25,2010 10:35 Printer:Yettocome
194 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
FIGURE 8.36 The shorter trendline on the right helps gauge a resistance level
afterthelargertrendlinehasbeenviolated.
The Dow Jones Utilities enjoyed a multi-year bull market in the early
part of the twenty-first century, mainly due to declining interest rates
(Figure8.36).Asinterestratesstartedincreasing,thisuptrendwasquickly
stopped,andinamatterofacoupleofweeks,the$UTILwentfromalife-
timehightoaclearbreakinitsuptrend.
Whenastockbreaksitssupportline,itispronetoweakness,because
the faith in the stock’s bulls is going to be badly shaken. Figure 8.37
illustrates this with Autodesk (symbol ADSK), which had climbed from
$7 to $47, often priced far above its support line. Late in 2005, the stock
gapped down, and the prices never crossed above the trendline again.
Although the price recovered over the next few weeks, nearly marking
a new lifetime high, the trend change was already in place: The stock
succumbedtothelossofmomentumandlostaboutaquarterofitsvalue.
Themultipletrendlinesinthechartillustratehowshorter-termtrendlines
can be helpful in seeing the new direction a stock is taking, since that is
pronetochangeintheearlystagesofatrendreversal.
A closer view of ADSK’s change from bullish to bearish (Figure 8.38)
highlightsthefascinatingabilityofstockpricestohaveasixthsenseabout
their former trendline, sometimes touching it to the penny, but not going

P1:OTA
c08 JWBT295-Knight May25,2010 10:35 Printer:Yettocome
TrendlinesandReversals 195
FIGURE 8.37 Astock’sfailuretoholdaboveitstrendlineusuallyprecedesmajor
changesindirection.
FIGURE 8.38 Thisisaclose-upviewofAutoDeskasitchangedfrombullishto
bearish.

P1:OTA
c08 JWBT295-Knight May25,2010 10:35 Printer:Yettocome
196 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
FIGURE 8.39 Cleveland Cliffs lost momentum just before falling through its
trendline.
above it again. The middle of the graph shows the price’s failed attempt
togetabovethelong-termtrendline,andfromFebruarythroughMay,the
priceshadanevenlowerlevelofresistancetheywerenotabletomount.
Thepsychologybehindthesetrendshiftsisimportanttounderstand.If
astockhasbeeninanuptrendforyears,onceitlosesmomentum,thehold-
ersofthatstockaregoingtobefrustratedanddisappointed(Figure8.39).
But after the initial shock, they will try to reestablish the stock to
its old bullish ways. Figure 8.40 shows that after Cleveland Cliffs fell to
$81, the bulls wrested control from the bears and were able to add about
25 percent to the stock in a matter of days. But the uptrend was over, in
spite of the bulls’ efforts. After this final run-up into the triple digits, the
stockfellyetagainbelowthe$81lowithadsorecentlyestablished.
Lastly,Figures8.41–8.47offerexcellentexamplesofpricefailurefrom
thefinancialcrisisof2008and2009.
SUPPORT BECOMES RESISTANCE
Knowingthatsupportbecomeresistance(andviceversa),andunderstand-
inghowpricescanclingtotrendlinesispowerfulknowledgethatyoucan

P1:OTA
c08 JWBT295-Knight May25,2010 10:35 Printer:Yettocome
TrendlinesandReversals 197
FIGURE 8.40 Aclose-upofClevelandCliffsshowsthestockattemptingtoregain
itsformerbullishself,whichultimatelyfailed.
turnintoprofitableopportunities.Knowinghowtousetrendlineswellcan
helpyouminimizeyourriskatthesametime.
Whenpricesfallbeneathsupportandtrytogetbacktothetrendline,
it’sasifthepricesarekissingtheunderbellyoftheline.Keepinmindvery
fewpeopleknowhowtousetrendlines(andevenfewerknowhowtouse
themwell),soit’snotasifthemarketsarezealouslyfollowingoneagreed-
upon line and marking prices along it. But the mass psychology driving
millionsofindividualstodowhattheydointhemarketshelpscreatethese
phenomenonandthosepracticedinchartingcanexploitthem.
ImagineyouhadwatchedAlleghenyTechnologyclimbfrom$2tothou-
sands of percent above that level, and you wanted to short the stock.
But because the stock was so strong, you didn’t know where to enter
the trade. The trendline for the stock (Figure 8.48) was broken when the
stock was about $22, and the stock kept climbing. Shorting the stock
in the subsequent months would have been a very unprofitable deci-
sion, since the stock climbed hundreds of percent more. Waiting until
the price finally mustered enough strength to touch the underside of the
trendline at $77.50 would have created a much safer opportunity for the
shortsale.

P1:OTA
c08 JWBT295-Knight May25,2010 10:35 Printer:Yettocome
198 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
FIGURE 8.41 Sterling Financial lost virtually its entire value after breaking im-
portantsupportatthe$17.50level.
The typical action after a price break usually does not take as long
as that, however. Figure 8.49 shows a more common pattern of the price
quicklymovingdownafterthepricebreak,regainingitsstrength,andthen
pushingbackuptotouchtheundersideofitsformersupportline.
The danger of shorting a stock merely because it has broken support
ishighlightedinFigure8.50.Aftertheinitialbreak,thestock(Hilton)did
indeedfallbadly.Butitdidn’ttakelongforittorecoverandmakeaseries

P1:OTA
c08 JWBT295-Knight May25,2010 10:35 Printer:Yettocome
TrendlinesandReversals 199
FIGURE 8.42 AlliedCapitalperfectlyretracteditspricedropinSeptember2008,
onlytorapidlyresumeitsfall.
ofnewlifetimehighs.Apersonbearishonthisstockwouldhavebeenwise
towaituntilthepricewasjustbarelyunderneaththeformersupportlevel
beforeplacingtheshort.Thatway,ifthepricedoesmanagetocrossabove
theline,youcanclosethepositionquicklywitharelativelysmallloss.
This kind of thinking applies not just to individual securities but
to entire markets as well. The NASDAQ Composite (Figure 8.51) broke
its support line and, similar to Hilton, initially fell swiftly, gathered its
strength, and began moving substantially higher. The market eventually
got extraordinarily close to the trendline, which would have represented
a very low-risk price level to short the market. Of course, there’s no

P1:OTA
c08 JWBT295-Knight May25,2010 10:35 Printer:Yettocome
200 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
FIGURE 8.43 FormergiantAIGstayedabovethehorizontallineshownherefor
an entire decade. Once that level was breached, it only took a few months for the
stock’spricetoapproachzero.
guarantee a stock or index will have enough strength to get close to its
former support level—it may simply fall away. But it is definitely safer to
waitforthepossibilitythatitdoesso.
It takes a lot of buying power to overcome the disappointment of a
trendlinebreak.Figure8.52showsacloserviewoftheNASDAQ’sattempt
togetbackaboveitstrendline.Ittookaboutfourmonthstodoso,andin
theend,itfailed,becausetheuptrendwassimplynolongervalid.
Continued strong volume can push a stock in an uptrend, even if a
former trend has been damaged. One of the most amazing stocks of 2005

P1:OTA
c08 JWBT295-Knight May25,2010 10:35 Printer:Yettocome
TrendlinesandReversals 201
FIGURE 8.44 Not all price falls are rapid. Dynegy broke its support in Novem-
ber2001andlingeredjustbeneathitforfivemonths.Butinthenextfewmonths
followingthat,thepricewentfrom$27toaboutfiftycents.
and 2006 was NutriSystem (symbol NTRI), shown in Figure 8.53. Bears
wouldhavehadanumberofopportunitiestoshortthestockatrelatively
safe levels, but in this graph, they would have lost money each time. The
techniques being illustrated here are certainly no guarantee of profit. But
theydoprovideameasuringtooltoknowwhenyouarewrongwithyour
speculation.

P1:OTA
c08 JWBT295-Knight May25,2010 10:35 Printer:Yettocome
202 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
FIGURE 8.45 Trendlinesareoftenretracedaftertheyarebroken.AcuityBrands
broke its trendline in October 2007 and tried to recapture the same line through
June2008,atwhichtimeitstartedtofallhard.
FIGURE 8.46 InsurancefirmAflachadaburstinSeptember2008,butthenext
month,itbrokeitslong-termtrendlineandlostabout80percentofitsvalue.

P1:OTA
c08 JWBT295-Knight May25,2010 10:35 Printer:Yettocome
TrendlinesandReversals 203
FIGURE 8.47 Clothes retailer Abercrombie & Fitch held above its long-term
trendlineuntilthesummerof2008.Oncethetrendlinewasbroken,ANFlostover
80percentofitsvalueasmeasuredfromitslifetimehigh.
One success story with this technique was Safeway Stores (symbol
SWY), shown in Figure 8.54. After a staggering rise in value, the stock
started softening, and it fell beneath support in the first half of 1999. In
afewmonths,ithadrecoveredsomeandwaspushedupagainsttheunder-
sideofitstrendline.Ashortsaleatthatpointwouldhaveyieldedmarvelous
profits, since the stock was exhausted and didn’t attempt such an assault
onitstrendlineagain.
A close-up view of this event is shown in Figure 8.55, which also
highlights how one must be somewhat discerning when watching price
action around trendlines. On the very first day of August, prices just
barelypeekedabovethetrendline.Thisdidnotmeanthatsuddenlyanew
bull market was in place for the stock. Once the ascending trendline is

P1:OTA
c08 JWBT295-Knight May25,2010 10:35 Printer:Yettocome
204 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
FIGURE 8.48 Thisgiganticpushupwardwasinthecontextofamajortrendline
changingfromsupporttoresistance.
broken, it cannot regain its stature as a reliable measure of upward price
movementsimplybecausepricesmanagetosneaktotheotherside.
In this case, the trendline provided a valuable “line in the sand” that
prices were prohibited from crossing. The prices did get across this line
by a few pennies, but certainly not enough to stop looking at the short
opportunity. This day in August established the high-water mark for the
FIGURE 8.49 This is typical price action following a trendline break, as prices
pushupagainsttheformersupportingtrendline.

P1:OTA
c08 JWBT295-Knight May25,2010 10:35 Printer:Yettocome
TrendlinesandReversals 205
FIGURE 8.50 In a strong market, it is typical for a stock to continue to push
higher,eventhoughitisunderneathresistance.
FIGURE 8.51 Thesafestplacetoshortamarketafteratrendlinebreakiswhen
itisupagainsttheresistanceline.

P1:OTA
c08 JWBT295-Knight May25,2010 10:35 Printer:Yettocome
206 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
FIGURE 8.52 Thisillustrateshowmuchstrengthisrequiredforastocktomake
anassaultonitsformertrendline.
stockafteritstrendlinebreak,anditwentontoasubstantiallossinvalue
afterward.
Figures8.56–8.61provideafewmoreexamples,allfromrecenthistory,
ofresistanceandsupportchangingtheirroles.
As stated earlier in this chapter, the more experience you gain with
drawing,interpreting,andtradingbasedontrendlines,thebetteryouwill
become.Themarketsarealwayschanging,andyouwilllearnmanyofthe
subtletiesinapplyingdrawnobjectswellandprofitably.
PARALLEL TRENDLINES
There are some instances—relatively rare—when price action is bound
by two parallel trendlines: one below as support, and the other above as
resistance.Wewillexplorethese“channels”inChapter9,butfornow,let
usseehowtousetheTrendlinetooltotrackthesechannels.

P1:OTA
c08 JWBT295-Knight May25,2010 10:35 Printer:Yettocome
TrendlinesandReversals 207
FIGURE 8.53 NutriSystemprovidedmanyshortingopportunitiesduringitsrise,
butitsstrengthkeptthebearsatbay.
FIGURE 8.54 SafewayStoresprovidesaclassicexampleofastocktryingtoget
aboveitstrendlineonlytoexhaustitselfandfallinearnest.

P1:OTA
c08 JWBT295-Knight May25,2010 10:35 Printer:Yettocome
208 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
FIGURE 8.55 This close-up of Safeway illustrates what an excellent short sale
thisstockpresented.
When you right-click on a trendline, one of the choices in the popup
menu is Duplicate. Choosing this creates another trendline right next to
the selected one (Figure 8.62), and the trendline will be the same length,
color,andangleastheselectedoriginal.Thehandlesoftheduplicatewill
bepreselectedsoyoucanmoveitimmediatelytothedesiredlocation.
You do not have to leave the duplicate trendline parallel, since either
ofthetwohandlescanbemoved.ButthemostpracticalvalueoftheDupli-
catecommandistocreateaparalleltrendlineforthepurposeofdrawing
achannelpattern.AsshowninFigure8.63,draggingtheparalleltrendline
toitsdestinationmakestheformationofachannelpatternsimple.
Uptothispoint,wehaveexaminedpricepatternsthatwereidealfor
trendline analysis. But real-life trading isn’t always so clean and easy to
track. We will complete our examination of trendlines by looking at the
timeswhenthepriceactionisn’tsopredictableandapparent.
FALSE BREAKOUTS
As discussed earlier in this chapter, the violation of a trendline by price
action can be a meaningful signal that the current trend has ended and is
possiblyevenreversing.Thisisabsolutelynotahardandfastrule,andwith

P1:OTA
c08 JWBT295-Knight May25,2010 10:35 Printer:Yettocome
TrendlinesandReversals 209
FIGURE 8.56 TheMorganStanleyHigh-TechIndexshowstwoexamplesofprice
levelsfightingbacktowardbrokensupport.ThefirstsupportwasbrokeninJanuary
2008, and that line was almost recovered by May. By September of that year, the
lowersupportlinewasbroken,andittookoverayeartore-approachthesameline.
anychart,onlytimewilltelltheultimatedestinationoftheprices.Itisyour
tasktomakeapredictionoffuturepriceactionwithenoughstatisticallike-
lihoodthatyouroddsofwinningarebetterthanyouroddsofbeingwrong.
For one thing, trendlines represent very potent boundary lines, and
prices piercing a trendline do not necessarily make that trend moot.
Figure 8.64 shows the S&P 100 index moving sharply higher and piercing
theuppertrendline,representingresistance.Onemightconcludethatthe
indexshouldpushabovetheresistancelineandhenceforthtreatitassup-
port.Inthiscase,pricessimplygotaheadofthemselvesandwerepushed
back well underneath the resistance line in just a couple of trading ses-
sions.
Another interesting example is that of MicroStrategy (Figure 8.65),
which was enjoying a very healthy uptrend in price. Late in April, during
two trading sessions, the stock lost about 10 percent of its value, and in

P1:OTA
c08 JWBT295-Knight May25,2010 10:35 Printer:Yettocome
210 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
FIGURE 8.57 TheDowTransportshasanentireseriesoflineswhich,inturns,
representedsupportandresistance.Boththehorizontallevels,tintedingreen,and
theangledlevels,shownwithredlines,haveapowerfuleffectontheprices.
doing so it crossed plainly beneath the ascending, supporting trendline.
Those long the stock may have made a swift exit. Even more aggressive
traders might have decided the stock was ready for a big tumble and en-
teredashortpositiononthestock.Thiswouldhavebeenacostlymistake,
asthestockquicklyrecoveredandnearlymatcheditsall-timehighwithina
fewdays.
In retrospect, were holders of this stock wrong to sell it? And were
those bearish on this stock wrong to sell it short? As of this writing, it is
impossible to know whether this stock will be $200 in a year, or $50, or
anywhere in between. In the very short-term analysis, two things can be
said: First, those long the stock were probably wise to close (or at least
reduce) their positions in the stock since the uptrend was violated. It is
very hazardous to speculate what the meaning of a trendline break is. If
oneistoignoreitandseewhathappens,thereismuchlessvalueineven

P1:OTA
c08 JWBT295-Knight May25,2010 10:35 Printer:Yettocome
TrendlinesandReversals 211
FIGURE 8.58 Ittooknearlyayear,butPhotronicsstageda1500percentprice
recoverytotrytogetbacktoitsformersupportzone.
bothering to watch a trendline in the first place. So the disciplined trader
wouldhavebeenwisetotakethetrendlinebreakseriously.
Alessgenerousanalysiscouldbemadeofthepeoplesellingthestock
short. A more careful approach would have been to wait for a few days
to see if the stock consolidated and touched the underside of the trend-
line, demonstrating that it was “respecting” the former support line as its
newresistanceline.Bywaiting,thepotentialshortsellerwouldhaveseen
pricesblastrightbackabovethetrendline,indicatingnotonlythattheline
didn’trepresentresistance,butthatitprobablydidn’thavemuchmeaning
at all. The more times a former trendline is penetrated from either direc-
tion,thelessmeaningfulitis.Simplystated,ithaswornoutitsusefulness
asanobservationaltool.
Asimilarexampleofasecuritythatbrokebelow—andthenabove—a
trendline is shown with the S&P 400 MidCap index in Figure 8.66. In this

P1:OTA
c08 JWBT295-Knight May25,2010 10:35 Printer:Yettocome
212 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
FIGURE 8.59 TheRussell2000indexhadasupportlevelgoingbackoverfour
years.Onceitwasbroken,thefallwasswiftandbrutal.Pricesapproachedtheun-
dersideofformersupportalmostexactlyayearlater.
case,pricesbrokebelowthetrendlineandstayedthereforafullmonthbe-
forebreakingabovetheformersupportlineagain.Fromthere,itregained
itsformerbullishdispositionandsoaredanother20percent.Interestingly,
inspiteofthedamagecausedtothesupportlinebythepriceactionbeing
beneathitforafullmonth,thepricesstillseemedtohaveahealthyrespect
forthisasasupportlineonceitregaineditscomposure.
Aclose-upviewofthismonth-longhiatusfromsupportlevelsisillus-
tratedwithFigure8.67.Itisinterestingtoseehow,onaday-by-daybasis,
priceactionsbehavewithrespecttothesupportingtrendline.
More often than not, trendline breaks do indicate directional change,
soletusturnourattentiontosomechartexamplesthatshowthisconcept
inaction.

P1:OTA
c08 JWBT295-Knight May25,2010 10:35 Printer:Yettocome
TrendlinesandReversals 213
FIGURE 8.60 Typically,thelongerasupportlevelisinplace,themoreformidable
itwillbeasresistance later.Diodes’stockenjoyed yearsofsupportatabout$22.
Afterplungingto$3,itsoaredmuchhigher,onlytobestoppedbyitsformersupport
level.
MULTIPLE TRENDLINES OVER THE
LONG HAUL
The chart in Figure 8.68 is worth careful study. On the chart, five sep-
arate trendlines are shown, each of which lasts a significant period—in
some cases, many years. There are a couple of fascinating things about
this graph, which help drive home the power of trendline analysis. First,
therearefivecleardirectionaltrends,andtheytoggletoadifferentdirec-
tion each time:up, down, up, down, and then up again (although this last
uptrend is violated on the extreme right portion of the graph, suggesting
thatperhapsevenasixthlineisintheprocessofbeingformed).
Second, each trendline has multiple “touch points” on the price data.
In spite of all of the events that happened during the 11 years of this

P1:OTA
c08 JWBT295-Knight May25,2010 10:35 Printer:Yettocome
214 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
FIGURE 8.61 Relativelylow-riskentrypointsforshortpositionscanbeenjoyed
whenapricepushesbackuptoitsformersupport,asillustratedwiththeDowJones
UtilityIndex.
FIGURE 8.62 ChoosingtheDuplicatefunctioncreatesaparalleltrendlineofthe
samelengthandstylewithitshandlespreselected.

P1:OTA
c08 JWBT295-Knight May25,2010 10:35 Printer:Yettocome
TrendlinesandReversals 215
FIGURE 8.63 Drag the parallel trendline to an appropriate location to form a
channelpattern,whichconsistsoftwotrendlines.
graph—economic booms and busts, changes in Presidential administra-
tions,dozensofearningsreleasesforthisstock,hundredsofnewsreleases,
andalltheupsanddownsofthestockmarketingeneral—thepriceaction
canstillbeclearlyboundedbyaseriesofsimple,straightlines.
Harrah’s Entertainment had a similar situation of multiple trend
changes, although the chart in Figure 8.69 shows three trendlines as op-
posed to five. It’s important to notice that even though it would not
have been apparent in 1999, the descending trend was in the process of
ending just as the ascending trend was in the process of being formed.
Trendsrarelychangeinstantly;ittakestime,sometimesmeasuredinmany
months. This explains why, when drawn with the benefit of hindsight,
trendlinesoftenoverlapwithrespecttotime.
Take a closer look at this trend change with a zoomed-in view of the
same graph (Figure 8.70). As the stock is downtrending, it starts to make
a move up and tries to push above the descending trendline, but it fails.
It falls hard and fast, making a low in October, and then again makes an
assault on the descending trendline. This time, it succeeds, and you can
plainlyseehow,afteritpushesitswayabovethetrendline,itfindssupport
onthesameline,bouncingoffitseveraltimes.Eventhoughthestockonce

P1:OTA
c08 JWBT295-Knight May25,2010 10:35 Printer:Yettocome
216 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
FIGURE 8.64 The S&P 100 just barely pushed above its resistance line before
succumbing.
FIGURE 8.65 MicroStrategy appeared to be breaking down, but it quickly
recovered.

P1:OTA
c08 JWBT295-Knight May25,2010 10:35 Printer:Yettocome
TrendlinesandReversals 217
FIGURE 8.66 TheS&P400MidCapseemedtobeseriouslybreakingdown,butit
composeditselfandpushedontonewhighs.
FIGURE 8.67 Thisclose-upoftheS&P400showsthebriefperioditwasbelow
itssupportline.

P1:OTA
c08 JWBT295-Knight May25,2010 10:35 Printer:Yettocome
218 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
FIGURE 8.68 ThischartillustratesfivedistincttrendchangesforsymbolKMI.
FIGURE 8.69 Trendlines working together are invaluable in identifying core
trendchangesinastock.

P1:OTA
c08 JWBT295-Knight May25,2010 10:35 Printer:Yettocome
TrendlinesandReversals 219
FIGURE 8.70 Harrah’sclearlyshiftedfromadowntrendtoanuptrendduringthis
timeperiod.
againfallsverybadly,itdoesnotfallbelowitsnewsupportlevel,andthis
lends credence to the idea that the trend has changed. From this point, it
enjoyeda400percentpriceincrease.
Knowingwhenatrendchangesisnoteasy,butitismadepossiblewith
experience and well-placed lines. But even a beginning chartist can gain
valuefromthesignalstrendlinesprovide,bothwhentheyareobeyedand
whentheyareviolated.
INTERPRETING AMBIGUITY
Using trendlines when the price action is neat and well-defined is pretty
simple. When prices don’t bounce precisely off trendlines and the price
behavioris“mushy”withrespecttosupportandresistancelevels,itisfar
more challenging. Although, by definition, there aren’t any absolute rules
when dealing with this ambiguous behavior, it is still helpful to look at
somepast,real-lifeexamplestoseehowtheyplayedout.
The S&P 600, showed in Figure 8.71, enjoyed a long, persistent
uptrend. There are two trendlines shown, both of them ascending. The

P1:OTA
c08 JWBT295-Knight May25,2010 10:35 Printer:Yettocome
220 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
FIGURE 8.71 Although the trendline has been violated, the basic direction
remainsintact.
highertrendlinewasviolatedabouthalfwayalongthegraph,andalthough
itbrieflymovedabovethislinelater,itfelloncemore,clearlyshowingthis
uptrendwashistory.
Thelinebeneathithadasimilarresult,althoughintheoppositesense.
In this instance, support held for virtually the entire graph, although it
wasbrieflyviolated.Butbothofthesetrendlinestellthesamestory:Even
though price action can move to the other side of a line, so long as this
violationisbrief,andprovidedthatthepricesresume“obeying”thetrend-
lineafterward,thetrendlinestilldoeshavemeaning.There’snodoubtthat
the validity of the trendline is diminished with any violation, but it is not
eliminatedcompletely.
An extremely interesting example of this is shown with Raven Indus-
tries (Figure 8.72). From 2000 through 2004, five whole years, the prices
steadilyclimbed,neverpiercingtheascendingsupportline.Earlyin2005,
whenthepricesbrokethetrendline,theydidnotsignalatrendchange.In-
stead,thetrendcontinuedupward,simplyshifteddownwardseveralprice
points.What’sremarkableaboutthisgraphishowthepricesclungtothe
formersupportline,crossingaboveandbelowitmanytimes,butgenerally
stickingrigidlytothelineasifitwereamagnet.

P1:OTA
c08 JWBT295-Knight May25,2010 10:35 Printer:Yettocome
TrendlinesandReversals 221
FIGURE 8.72 AfterRAVNbreaksthroughitstrendline,thepriceseemstocling
tothelineasamedianinsteadofeithersupportorresistance.
Thesofteningofatrend’sdirectioncantaketheformofapricereduc-
tion,aswithRavenIndustries,ortheformofareductioninthesteepness
ofatrend,suchaswithFigure8.73.Inthiscase,theNASDAQ100market
violated itsmajorascending trendline, but over timeitcontinued asofter
uptrend.Comparethemedium-lengthtrendline,shownontherightsideof
the graph, with the longer trendline that spans virtually the entire graph.
Asyoucansee,themedium-termlinehasareducedslope,indicatingthat
eventhoughtheuptrendiscontinuing,itisdoingsowithlesspotency.
A close-up of this graph (Figure 8.74) highlights the breakdown from
the long-term trendline, the establishment of the medium-term trendline,
and—in the end—the violation of this trendline as well. Another element
atplayhereisthehorizontallineatthe1,760pricelevel.Ifthemarkethad
been stronger, the prices would have pierced above this horizontal line,
completing a small saucer-shaped pattern. Instead, in spite of an attempt
to reach this line, the market didn’t have enough power, and it quickly
fell away from this line and instead pierced beneath the medium-term
trendline.
The main lesson with all of these graphs is that price charts are,
in a sense, living creatures, and you need to keep them updated with

P1:OTA
c08 JWBT295-Knight May25,2010 10:35 Printer:Yettocome
222 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
FIGURE 8.73 Multiple trendlines can work together to show the softening of a
market,asshownherewiththeNASDAQ100index.
FIGURE 8.74 Thisclose-upoftheNASDAQ100showsitsvaluepushingabove
itshorizontalresistanceaswellasitssubsequenttrendlinefailure.

P1:OTA
c08 JWBT295-Knight May25,2010 10:35 Printer:Yettocome
TrendlinesandReversals 223
FIGURE 8.75 AmericanInternationalGroupprovidesabeautifulexampleofre-
sistancechangingtosupportaswellasthecreationofanewresistanceline.
appropriate drawn objects in order to interpret their action and have
your attention drawn to meaningful price events. You should treat your
trendlines seriously—certainly not moving them here and there each
day in order to falsely bound price action that has no business being
bounded—butyoualsoneedtobeopentothecreationofnewtrendlines
(and other drawn objects) as the price action gets hammered out, day by
day,onebaratatime.
American International Group (Figure 8.75) gives us another fine ex-
ample of a graph whose price momentum changed both direction and
angle. Notice how the prices fell steadily from 2000 to 2003. Late in
2003, prices pushed above the descending resistance line. Notice the
exceptional behavior of the prices after this—in two instances (late in
2004 and early in 2005) prices fell swiftly and perfectly touched the
support line (the still-intact trendline that had been resistance before).
Afterwards, prices started moving up. In retrospect, we can see three
exceptionally well-formed trendlines: the large one (representing resis-
tance and, later, support); the other descending line above it (repre-
senting resistance); and the ascending trendline, illustrating the rapid
recovery of the stock along this support level. It is easy to see what an

P1:OTA
c08 JWBT295-Knight May25,2010 10:35 Printer:Yettocome
224 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
FIGURE 8.76 It is helpful to leave older trendlines in place, as they can help
illustratethegeneralstrengthorweaknessofastockhistorically.
advantage a trader has if he has equipped himself with information such
asthis.
Even when trendlines have been violated, it is worthwhile to leave
them in place unless the price action around them becomes so noisy as
to render them meaningless. An old trendline may yield new insight later
in the graph, since price levels may ultimately push up against that line
again. Or, as in the graph shown in Figure 8.76, older trendlines can help
you see broad market changes, such as the softening of ascending prices
whencomparingthefirsttrendlineherewiththesecond.
SUMMARY
We have covered a tremendous amount of ground in this chapter. We’ve
learned how to construct and interpret trendlines in many different cir-
cumstances. We can see how to make use of them to measure resistance
and support levels and to judge when a trend has changed. Now we will
addtothisknowledgeinthenextchapterbylearningabouttrendlinepairs
thatmakeupthemuchrarer,butstillveryuseful,channelpattern.

P1:OTA
c09 JWBT295-Knight May5,2010 8:13 Printer:Yettocome
C H A P T E R 9
Expansion and
Channels
I
nthischapterwearegoingtoundertaketwodifferentbutrelatedsub-
jects: chart resizing and drawn channels. A channel is a drawn object
thatconsistsoftwoparalleltrendlines,somanyofthesameprinciples
you learned in Chapter 8 apply. First, though, we will examine charting
resizing since it is relevant not just to channels but to almost all drawn
objects.
RESIZING AND EXPANSION
The ability to resize the space allocated to a chart is one of the most
unique and vital features in ProphetCharts. To understand this concept,
think about what the right side of virtually all charts looks like, ending
withthemostrecentdatapointandthemostrecentlyavailabledate.This
makessense,becausechartsarereadfromleft(earliestdate)toright(lat-
estdate),anditseemslogicalforthecharttoendwhereverthedataend.
Inaddition,itmakessenseforachart’supperandlowerextremestobe
boundedbyextremesinprice.Ifyouarechartingastockthat,duringthe
timeperiodshown,rangesinpricefrom$5to$10,itwouldunnecessarily
flattenthechartifthepricerangeavailableonthey-axisstartedat$0and
endedat$500.
However,thereisrealvalueinbeingabletomodifyhowmuchempty
space is above, below, and to the right of a chart. To make this easier to
understand, think of the entire area available (the entire y-axis, which is
225

P1:OTA
c09 JWBT295-Knight May5,2010 8:13 Printer:Yettocome
226 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
vertical,andtheentirex-axis,whichishorizontal)asthe“chartarea”and
thinkoftheareainwhichpricesareactuallydisplayedasthe“pricearea.”
Usually, the price area and the chart area are one and the same.
This is certainly the case with most printed and electronic charts. In
ProphetCharts,however,youcancreateemptyspaceintheupper,lower,
andrightportionsofthechartwithpixel-by-pixelflexibility,whichmeans
thepriceareacanbesmaller—evenmuchsmaller—thanthechartarea.
WHY RESIZE?
ThoserelativelynewtoProphetChartsmaywonderwhatvaluethereisin
resizing.Afterall,itissimplygoingtocreateemptyspacewithoutanyprice
data.Youwillbeaddingeitherdollarvaluesthatarehigherorlowerthan
thestock’shistoricalrange,oryouwillbeaddingdatesinthecalendarthat
havenotoccurredyet.
Thereasonthishasvalueisbecause,asyouexaminecharts,youwill
findithelpfultobeabletopicturewhatmaybeinstoreforthestockyou
are charting in the future. When you are using drawn objects or trying to
recognizecertainchartpatterns,itisinvaluabletolookusingyourmind’s
eyeintothefuturetopredictthemostlikelydirectionofastock’spriceand
howhighorlowthestockwillgoduringthatmovement.
Youwillseesomeexamplesofthissoon,butasastart,itisvaluableto
know how to expand a chart in the first place. This is accomplished with
the item in the toolbar second from the left (or, from the menu, the item
ResizeGraph).Clickingtheresizetool(Figure9.1)instantlyallowsyouto
reshapethepriceareatoanyrectangularshapewithinthechartarea.
ThemomentyouclickontheResizetool,theentirechartareabecomes
grey, and a message appears in the center of the chart: “Drag the graph’s
corner or edge handles to resize. Click inside the graph when finished.”
(SeeFigure9.2.)Andthatreallytellsyoueverythingyouneedtoknow.
There are five handles you can grab—one on the top, one on the bot-
tom,oneontheright,andoneonboththeupper-rightandlower-leftcor-
ners(Figure9.3).Youcanclickonanyoftheseanddragtoresizethechart
to your liking. It is more common to create x-axis (time-based) space as
FIGURE 9.1 Clickingtheresizetoolletsyouchangetheheightandwidthofthe
areaallocatedtothechartdata.

P1:OTA
c09 JWBT295-Knight May5,2010 8:13 Printer:Yettocome
ExpansionandChannels 227
FIGURE 9.2 When you click Resize, ProphetCharts gives you basic instructions
aboutwhattodonext.
opposedtoy-axis(price-based)space,buttheextrablankspaceyouform
istotallyuptoyou,andofcourseitcanbechangedatanytime.Onceyou
aresatisfiedwiththenewsizeofyourchart,youcanclickanywherewithin
thecharttosetthatsize.
Let’slookatasimpleexampleofhowaresizedchartmightbeuseful.
Figure 9.4 shows a graph of the S&P 500 index over the span of a couple
ofyears,andithasachannel(withamedianline)drawnontopofit.The
graphshowsthatthemarketfellquicklyfromabout1,330toabout1,255.
Suppose you were interested in shorting this market, but you wanted to
waituntilthepricehadclimbedbacktothemedianlineinordertoreduce
the risk of the trade. If you had a normal graph, it would not be possible
tojudgethisaccurately.However,bybeingabletoseesixweeksintothe
future(albeitwithoutpricedata),youcaneasilypicturehowaretracement
mighttakeplace,and,usingyourcursorandthedataline,youcouldpoint
atthelikely“touchpoint”onthemedianandgetanaccurateestimateasto
thepricetheS&Pneedstohitbeforeyouplaceyourtrade.
Totakeafarmoredramaticexample,supposeyouweretakinganex-
tremely long-range view of the market, and you used the Fibonacci time
seriesstudy(whichyouwillreadaboutinChapter15)toprojectwhenthe
next major market top might take place. It would be entirely impractical
todothiswithoutbeingabletoresizethechart.ButasFigure9.5shows,
FIGURE 9.3 Five handles appear on the chart area, any one of which can be
draggedtoreshapethechart.Oneofthehandlesisshownhere.

P1:OTA
c09 JWBT295-Knight May5,2010 8:13 Printer:Yettocome
228 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
FIGURE 9.4 Thisgraphshowsasmallamountofexpansion,allowingyoutosee
aboutsixweeksintothefuture.
FIGURE 9.5 This is a more extreme example of showing the future, since this
Fibonaccitimeserieshasitsnextdatapointdecadesaway.

P1:OTA
c09 JWBT295-Knight May5,2010 8:13 Printer:Yettocome
ExpansionandChannels 229
thisanalysisispossible,eventhoughthenextlineintheseriesisdecades
inthefuture,inapproximately2043.
As a practical matter, it is useful to leave the chart permanently ex-
panded,andalthoughtheamountofexpansionisuptoyou,allocatingap-
proximately the rightmost 10 percent and the uppermost 5 percent of the
charttoa“price-free”chartareaisusuallyenough.Youwillfinditinvalu-
ableinbeingabletospeculateonfuturepricemovement,particularlysince
alltheobjectsyouhavedrawn(suchastrendlines,Fibonaccistudies,and
so forth) will project into the future. You can use those as guides to pre-
dictfuturesupportandresistancelevels,andwhencombinedwiththedata
line,youcanpinpointthosepredicteddatesandprices.
PARALLEL LINES
In Chapter 8, you learned how to use and draw trendlines. The tool next
tothetrendlinetool,whichisthechanneltool(Figure9.6),letsyoudraw
two parallel trendlines easily in order to bound price data in a channel
pattern.
Channelpatternsarerarerthantrendlinepatterns,simplybecauseitis
mucheasiertofindpricesbouncingoffaconsistentsupportorresistance
level than it is to find prices bouncing within both support and resistance
inaparallelfashion.Inthecaseofasupportingtrendline,youwillproba-
bly see prices touching the trendline below and not having any particular
patternaboveit,andwitharesistingtrendline,youwillseepricestouching
the trendline above and not having any meaningful shape below. In other
words, trendlines bounce off either the upper or lower price action, and
otherwisethepriceactionmaybejustnoise.
Withachannel,however,pricesareconfinedwithinparalleltrendlines.
Becausethispatternismuchmoreunusual,itisalsomuchmoremeaning-
ful.Thepricesareobeyingmorecomplexmechanics,andthuswhenprices
exit that channel in either direction, the move up or down will likely be
more potent. As always, the longer the pattern, the more meaningful the
breakoutfromthepattern,andabreakoutfromachannelisusuallymore
significantthanabreakoutfromasingletrendline.
FIGURE 9.6 Thechanneltoolisrepresentedbytwosmallparalleltrendlines.

P1:OTA
c09 JWBT295-Knight May5,2010 8:13 Printer:Yettocome
230 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
Drawing a channel is very similar to drawing a trendline. You follow
thesesteps:
1. Clickonthechanneltool.
2. Clickinthechartareawhereyouwanttobeginyourfirsttrendline.
3. Dragthemousetowhereyouwantthistrendlinetoendandclickonce
more.
4. Atthispoint,anotherparallellinewillappear.Asyoumovethemouse
upanddown,thisparallellinewillfollowyourmousemovement.
5. Placethelineatitsdestinationandclickthemousebuttontocomplete
thedrawing.Youwillnowhaveadrawnchannel.
As with the trendline, you can right-click on a drawn channel (Fig-
ure9.7)tomakeuseofotherfeatures,oneofwhichisuniquetothechan-
nel.Hereiswhateachitemfromthemenudoes:
Move:Allowsyoutomovethechannelorchangeitsangle.Whenyou
selectthis,threehandlesappear:oneatthestartpointofthefirst
trendline, another on the end point of the first trendline, and an-
other on the end point of the second trendline. You can drag any
of these handles to change the angle of the channel (the full 360
degrees of a circle are available) or to adjust the distance of the
secondtrendlinefromthefirst.
Duplicate: This creates an identical channel (same size, angle, color)
near the first one, and this duplicate channel will have all three
handlespreselectedsoyoucanimmediatelymoveittothedesired
location.
FIGURE 9.7 Whenyouright-clickonachannel,thispopupmenuappears.

P1:OTA
c09 JWBT295-Knight May5,2010 8:13 Printer:Yettocome
ExpansionandChannels 231
Change Style/Color: Brings up the same dialog box as was shown in
Figure8.16,allowingyoutochangethecolor,opacity,weight,and
patternofthechannel.Youcanalsopreservethesesettingssothey
areusedasthedefaultforallfuturechanneldrawings.
Extend: As with the same option for trendlines, the Extend function
makesthetrendlines(andthemedianline,ifselected)extendin-
finitelyintothefuture.Thisisespeciallyusefulifyouareusingan
expandedchart,asdescribedearlierinthischapter.
ShowMedianLine:Thisoptionisuniquetothechanneltool.Itcreates
another parallel trendline exactly between the upper and lower
trendlines of the channel. There are instances (such as with Fig-
ure9.4)inwhichnotonlythepricesareboundedbyachannelbut
alsotendtoclingtothemiddlelinebetweentheupperandlower
trendlines.Thiscanmakeformoreinsightfulandpreciseanalysis.
Delete:Choosingthisdeletestheselectedchannel.Ifyoumakeamis-
take,youcanalwaysundoyourdecisionwiththeUndocommand
(Ctrl-Z).
DeleteAllDrawings:Choosingthisdeletesallthedrawnobjectsonthe
current chart. If you make a mistake, you can always undo your
decisionwiththeUndocommand(Ctrl-Z).
Beingabletospotchannelsonachartcanbechallenging,becauseyou
havetoascertainwhetherpriceactionisintendedtofitauniform,parallel
pattern. Experimentation with drawings is the best approach when you
arelearning,sincethereisnoharmincreatinganddeletingchannelsifyou
findthatyouwerewrong.Andifyourdrawingdoesn’tquiteconformtothe
priceaction,youcanalsousetheMovecommandtoadjustthepositionof
thechannelsopriceslineupwithintheboundaries.
Theapplicationofchannelsisverysimilartothatoftrendlines.Ifyou
areinaposition,youshouldstayinthatpositionsolongasthepricesstay
within the boundaries (Figure 9.8). And if you are not in a position, you
may want to wait until the price breaks above (bullish) or below (bear-
ish) the channel before taking action. You should also keep in mind that
breakoutsaremorepotentiftheyarecontrarytotheprimarytrendofthe
channel. In other words, a breakout above a descending channel is espe-
cially bullish, and a breakdown below an ascending channel is especially
bearish,becauseineachcase,thebreakoutisinoppositiontotheformer
trend.
As mentioned before, channel patterns are unusual, but they do hap-
pen, and the longer they last, the more meaningful they are. Any price
trend will eventually change, so as a channel gets progressively old, the
likelihoodofitsstayingwithinthatchanneldiminishes,andthepotencyof
themoveonceitescapesthatchannelincreases.AsFigure9.9shows,itis

P1:OTA
c09 JWBT295-Knight May5,2010 8:13 Printer:Yettocome
232 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
FIGURE 9.8 An open position can be held as long as the price action remains
boundedbythesupportandresistancelevels.
FIGURE 9.9 Pricescanremainwithinchannelsformanymonths,orevenyears.

P1:OTA
c09 JWBT295-Knight May5,2010 8:13 Printer:Yettocome
ExpansionandChannels 233
hazardoustotrytoanticipatethebreakoutfromachanneluntilisactually
happens,sincepricescanstaywithintheconfinesofachannelformonths
orevenyears.
BREAKDOWNS AND BREAKOUTS
When prices do finally leave their channels—and they always will,
eventually—those holding positions in those securities are wise to close
themout,andthoselookingforanentrypointshouldexaminethechartas
anopportunity.Figure9.10illustratestypicalactionafterachannelisbro-
ken. In this instance, prices were trending slowly lower, making a series
oflowerhighsandlowerlows.Apersonexploitingthischannelmayhave
seizedonopportunitiestobuythestockwhenitwasatthelowersupport
lineandsellthestockshortwhenitwasattheupperresistanceline.Butas
thechartshows,thefourthtimeittouchedthesupportline,itsubsequently
brokeit,andthedownfallinpricefromtherewasfastandpowerful.
FIGURE 9.10 Thischannelshowshowswiftlypricesfellafterpricesviolatedthe
lowersupportline.

P1:OTA
c09 JWBT295-Knight May5,2010 8:13 Printer:Yettocome
234 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
FIGURE 9.11 In a bullish move, prices pushed above support in this chart and
movedsignificantlyhigher.
Prices can move out of a channel in either direction, of course. Fig-
ure9.11showsachannelmadeoftwohorizontal,paralleltrendlines.This
alsohappenstobeaninvertedheadandshoulderspattern,whichyouwill
readaboutinChapter13.Afterpricesmovedaboveresistance,theyswiftly
morethandoubled,andapersonpurchasingthisstockafterthebreakout
would have had a profit almost immediately after the trade since prices
neverdippedbeneaththeformerresistanceline.
Channelsappearinthreedifferentforms:ascending(aseriesofhigher
highsandhigherlows),descending(lowerhighsandlowerlows),andhor-
izontal (equal highs and equal lows). A stock breaking above its ascend-
ingchannelorbreakingbelowitsdescendingchannelisn’tusuallyagood
trade,becauseitissimplymovinginthesamedirectionatafasterrate.The
bettertradesarethosewhereareversalpatterntakesplace.
Figure 9.12, for example, shows a stock that was moving higher
within an ascending channel. When it finally broke beneath support late
inOctober,itlostabout20percentofitsvalue,andthestockwasclearly
inadowntrendversusitsprioruptrend.
Becausechannelsaremadeofatrendlinepair,thesameguidelinescan
apply.Theideaofpricesmovingbacktowardthetrendlineafterabreakout

P1:OTA
c09 JWBT295-Knight May5,2010 8:13 Printer:Yettocome
ExpansionandChannels 235
FIGURE 9.12 Channels do not have to be horizontal to be effective. Breakouts
contrarytothepriortrendareoftenthemostpotent.
isstilltrue.Forexample,whenpricesbreakbeneathachannel’ssupport-
ing line, they can move higher (in spite of the bearish signal) and touch
the line that used to represent support (Figure 9.13). It is also helpful, af-
ter a channel violation, to watch for the formation of new patterns, since
thechannelbydefinitionhasbecomeapatternofthepast.LookingatFig-
ure 9.13 once again, the prices formed a clear topping pattern spanning
nearlyayearoncepricescutbeneathsupportinOctober.Inaddition,you
canseepricesmovingfrom$36to$46evenafterthispatternfailure,since
priceswereclingingtotheundersideoftheformersupportlinebeforethey
succumbedtothenewpattern’sdirection.
Another interesting thing about channels is that they often represent
temporary changes in trend. Figure 9.14 offers a real-life example. At the
beginningofthechart,thestockwasmovingdownbadly,descendingfrom
$15 to $8.50 per share. Following this weakness, the stock began a coun-
termove lasting nearly two years, and the prices nearly tripled. Once the
channelwasbroken,thedescentinpricesbegananew.What’sparticularly
interesting about this channel is that the channel itself was defined early

P1:OTA
c09 JWBT295-Knight May5,2010 8:13 Printer:Yettocome
236 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
FIGURE 9.13 Afterpricesfellbelowsupport,theygraduallyweakenedoverthe
monthsahead.
on:Thepricepointsestablishedinthefirstfewmonthsofthechannelac-
curatelypredictedtheentiremove.Hadatradermadeuseofthischannel,
hewouldhavebenefitedfromvirtuallytheentiretyofthepricemove,since
byandlargethestockwentupuntilitbrokebeneaththesupportline.
The very best channel-based trades are those where prices break out
inthedirectionoppositethechannel.Figure9.15providesafittingexam-
ple. Prices had been moving steadily lower, bottoming at less than $2.50.
Whenpricesmorethandoubledafterthat,theywereupagainsttheupper
resistanceline.Oncetheybrokeabovethatline,however,thesubsequent
movenearlyquadrupledpricesfromthatlevel.Althoughapersonentering
thistrademightbegrudgethefactthattheyhadalreadymisseda100per-
centmove(from$2.50to$5.00),thefactisthatuntilthepricesareoutside
the channel, there is no basis for that trade. There were many other oc-
casions when the price was at resistance and could have broken out, but
it did not. Only until the reversal is confirmed with a breakout is there a
rationalreasontoplacethetrade.

P1:OTA
c09 JWBT295-Knight May5,2010 8:13 Printer:Yettocome
ExpansionandChannels 237
FIGURE 9.14 Thischannelwasenteredintowhenthestockwasmuchweaker.
Thechannelrepresentsatimeofconsistentstrength.
FIGURE 9.15 Breakingaboveadescendingchannelusuallyprecedessignificant
upwardmoves.

P1:OTA
c09 JWBT295-Knight May5,2010 8:13 Printer:Yettocome
238 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
FIGURE 9.16 Other patterns may form within channels, which can offer more
thoroughinsightintoastock’sfuturebehavior.
Justbecausepricesareboundbyachanneldoesnotmeanthatachan-
nelistheonlypatternthatcantakeplaceduringthattimespan,especiallyif
achannelissomewhatlengthy.Therearemanyinstanceswherepatterns
can appear within other patterns, and having an awareness of those can
yieldfreshinsightintothestock’sfuturebehavior.
In Figure 9.16, the price of the Russell 2000 index moved within the
confinesofaverylargechannelformanymonths.Butinsidethechannel,
a series of different patterns appears: The three horizontal lines indicate
breakoutsfromsmallerbullishpatterns.Byhavinganawarenessofthese
smallerpatterns,youcouldlookforrepeatedbehavior.Sonotonlywould
you be aware of a broad-based uptrend, but you could make predictions
basedonthesmallerpatterns—inthiscase,bullishpatternswithinamuch
larger bullish pattern, which made the case especially strong for holding
ontothiswinningposition.
SUMMARY
Inthischapterandthepriorone,youhavestudiedline-basedpatterns:that
is,trendlinesandchannels.Understandingandusingtheseareessentialto

P1:OTA
c09 JWBT295-Knight May5,2010 8:13 Printer:Yettocome
ExpansionandChannels 239
good charting. But these straight-line patterns are relatively easy to find,
and there are many other kinds of patterns that are important to your
knowledgeoftechnicalanalysisbutmaynotbesoobvious.
In the next chapter, we will begin this journey into more ambiguous
patterns by studying rounded tops and rounded bottoms. These are pat-
terns which can help you predict reversals of a security from which you
canprofit.

P1:OTA
c10 JWBT295-Knight May5,2010 8:22 Printer:Yettocome
C H A P T E R 10
Rounded Tops
and Saucers
T
wo of the most important events that occur repeatedly in technical
analysisarebreakoutsandreversals.Abreakoutistheactofaprice
escaping from a relatively tight price range, either to the upside (a
breakout above resistance) or the downside (a failure below support). A
reversalistheactofapricechangingdirectlyeitherfrom(1)uptodown
or (2) from down to up. What is going on in each case is the same—an
escapefromapricerange.Theterminologydiffersonlytostatewhathas
happenedpriortothatescape.
Breakoutsandreversalsarecrucialeventstodiscernonachartsince
they can make you money, and two of the most common patterns found
on charts that relate to these events are rounded tops (at the peak of a
chart) and saucers (at the bottom). There are many terms used for this
phenomenon. A rounded top, as the name suggests, is price action at the
upper end of a chart, and it is sometimes called a distribution top or an
inverted saucer. A saucer, which is typically at the low end of a chart’s
recentpricerange,isalsoreferredtoasaroundedbottom,abasingpattern,
oradishpattern.
Tops and bottoms are not always as clean and neat as saucers and
tops, so we will begin by examining the more fundamental price break-
outs, which are the progenitors of saucers and tops. A breakout is the
escape from a price range bounded by a lower line (support) and an up-
perline(resistance).Figure10.1illustratesabreakoutpatterninwhichthe
priceactionhadbeenaround$7to$9formanymonths.Whenpricesbroke
above the resistance line in mid-June, the stock swiftly moved up several
hundredpercent.
240

P1:OTA
c10 JWBT295-Knight May5,2010 8:22 Printer:Yettocome
RoundedTopsandSaucers 241
FIGURE 10.1 This stock bounced between $7 and $9 for a year before finally
breakingaboveitsresistancelevel.Noticethepullbacktotheformerresistancelevel
afterthebreakout,afterwhichthepricesoared.
Alonger-termchartisprovidedbyOwensIllinois(Figure10.2),whose
stockwasformingabasefrom1992through1996.Traderssometimesrefer
tothispriceactionashammeringoutabase,becausethereisatug-of-war
happening between buyers and sellers as they try to establish a fair price
forthestock.Thisisasearchforequilibriumorpricediscovery,sincethe
marketisworkingatdiscoveringwhattheproperpriceisforthesecurity.
FIGURE 10.2 OwensIllinois(symbolOI)tripledafteritbrokeabovethisbreakout
pattern.

P1:OTA
c10 JWBT295-Knight May5,2010 8:22 Printer:Yettocome
242 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
As this goes on—especially over a period of years, such as with this
example—the stock amasses a larger and larger group of owners of the
stockwithinafairlynarrowpricerange.Onceexternaleventsfinallypush
prices out of this range, the momentum behind that push will be strong,
because so many holders will be in a winning position, eager to acquire
moreshares.
Thepsychologybehindamassofbuyersholdingasecurityataparticu-
larpriceisimportant,andinawayitistheverybasisoftechnicalanalysis.
Generally speaking, traders prefer profits to losses. Owners of a security
whose price moves higher will feel increasingly positive about that stock
andwillfeelcompelledtobuymore,becausetheirprofitsareincreasing.If
thereisalargemassofsuchbuyers,thiskindofbuyingcanfeedonitself.
Astockthathasbeentrappedwithinasmallpricerangeforalongterm
willhavetwoimportantingredientsforapotentialupsidemove:(1)alarge
quantity of buyers within that price range, eager to add to their position
ifthestockbreaksoutoftherange,and(2)astrongsupportlevelatthat
price range, which will create a firm floor for prices if an initial breakout
weakens. If a stock breaks above its price range and then starts sinking,
thatsamemassofownersofthestockisgoingtobereluctanttoselltheir
holdingsasthepricesoftens,whichwillcausethepricetofirmassellers
dry up. This army of security owners within that price range is a potent
force,bothforpushingthestockhigherandforprotectingthestockfrom
fallingthroughthewell-establishedpricerange.
An extraordinary example of the power of a long-term base is shown
with Newport Corporation in Figure 10.3. The stock hammered out a
FIGURE 10.3 Newport Corporation (symbol NEWP) exploded in both price and
volumein2000,goingupalmosttwentyfoldinaveryshorttime.

P1:OTA
c10 JWBT295-Knight May5,2010 8:22 Printer:Yettocome
RoundedTopsandSaucers 243
gargantuanbaseovernearlytwodecades,from1983to1999.Whenitfinally
brokeabove$10,theascentwasfastandfurious,withanearlytwentyfold
increaseinvaluewithinjustoverayear.Noticealsothegiganticincrease
in volume during this time, which is illustrative of the ascent feeding on
itself.Havingwaitedsomanyyearsforthestocktofinallywakeupanddo
something,buyerswerefallingalloverthemselvestoacquiremoreshares
onceitfinallydidburstaboveitswell-establishedresistancelevel.
PRICE PULLBACKS
One nice feature of breakouts is that they often give traders a second
chancetogetinafterthebreakout.Thistemporarysofteninginpricesafter
the breakout is known as a pullback, and it is caused by a portion of the
ownersofthestockanxioustobanktheirprofitsontheirstock’snewfound
priceactivity.
Imagine a hypothetical group of 1,000 people, each of whom owns
sharesinacompanythathasbeentradingbetween$10and$12foryears.
Ifthestockfinallybreaksoutandhits$15,youcanunderstandtheexcite-
mentoftheseowners,sincetheyhavebeenholdingado-nothingstockfor
yearsanditisfinallyshowingsignsoflife.
Althoughmostoftheseownersmaybepatientenoughtolettheirprof-
its build, a subset of this group is going to want to get out of the stock
immediatelyandtaketheirprofits.Thepsychologybehindthisgroupisun-
derstandable, too—after all, their stock has done absolutely nothing, and
now it is giving them an opportunity to get out with some extra cash. So
some people—let’s say 100 of the group of 1,000—immediately place or-
derstosellthestockatthecurrentmarketprice.
Thisinfluxofsellingisgoingtocausethepricetosoften,atleasttem-
porarily. It usually will head back to the upper end of its former trading
range, at which point selling will dry up since any newfound profits the
group enjoyed have now vanished, eliminating the compulsion to sell the
stockforaquickprofit.Thistemporarysofteningofpricesisthepullback,
and those people watching the stock chart closely can take advantage of
this by acquiring thestock at theprebreakout price. Itisan especially at-
tractiveopportunitybecausethestockhas,inamannerofspeaking,tipped
itshandaboutitspricedirectionsinceithasfinallybrokenoutofitsprice
range.
Thestockofthecompany Potash,showninFigure10.4,brokeabove
theupperendofitspricerangeandswiftlymovedfrom$38to$44.Itthen
startedslippingbackto$38,andforthefirstfewmonthsof2004,thestock
bobbled between a miniature price zone of $38 to $44 before doubling in

P1:OTA
c10 JWBT295-Knight May5,2010 8:22 Printer:Yettocome
244 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
FIGURE 10.4 Potash(symbolPOT)morethandoubledafterthisbeautifulsaucer
breakout.
value.Thispullbackcreatedagreatopportunityforgettingintothestock
at a relatively low-risk price. After the breakout, the saucer’s price range
of $18 to $38 was a thing of the past. The stock was now trading above
$38. It took a few months to get the strength and confidence to soar over
100percent,butduringthatperiod,asavvytradercouldhaveacquiredthe
stockatapriceveryclosetotheinitialbreakoutlevel(withoutthemisery
ofholdingado-nothingstockformanyyearsbeforehand).
Some of the most exceptional market gains in history have been en-
joyedfollowingthedecisive breakout ofastockabove along-established
price range. The more defined and longer the chart pattern, the better it
is for owners of that stock. An extraordinary instance of this is shown in
Figure10.5with3M.(Atthetimeofthebreakout,thecompanywascalled
Minnesota Mining & Manufacturing.) The age of the price range was sub-
stantial, spanning from 1973 to 1986. Once the stock broke above resis-
tance,ithardlyeverlookedback(exceptforthecrashof1987,which,in-
terestingly,pushedthestockbacktothetopofitsformertradingrangeand
nolower).Thestockmovedliterallythousandsofpercenthigherafterthis
breakout.
Itiseasytoseeinretrospecthowobviousthesepatternsare.Itseems
that, armed with this knowledge, people would know exactly what to do.
Butthisisnotthecase,anditagaingoesbacktohumanpsychology.
When a breakout occurs, a person examining the stock doesn’t have
the benefit of the next 20 years of price history. They can see only what

P1:OTA
c10 JWBT295-Knight May5,2010 8:22 Printer:Yettocome
RoundedTopsandSaucers 245
FIGURE 10.5 The benefits after a breakout can last decades. This shows 3M
Corporation(symbolMMM)movingthousandsofpercenthigherafterahandsome
breakout.
has happened so far. Imagine yourself looking at 3M in 1986 just after it
broke above its former resistance level. You would be confronted with a
stockthat(1)haddoneverylittleformorethanadecadeand(2)wasata
higherpricethananyonehadeverpaidforit.Youmightfeelfoolishtocon-
siderpayingapremiumpriceforado-nothingstock.Thosealreadyowning
thestockmightfeelcompelledtoincreasetheirholdingsandaddtotheir
profits,butfornewcomers,astockthathasjustmadeanewhighpriceis
seldom tempting because everyone else was able to get the stock before,
whenitwascheap.
Inretrospect,ofcourse,apersonbuying3Min1986wouldindeedbe
getting it cheap, because once the stock has moved up thousands of per-
cent, whether you paid $1.25 a share or $1.10 a share doesn’t make much
difference. But at the time, few people want to pay what they see as top
dollarforastock,andtheyprefertowaituntilthestockgetscheapagain.
Thefactis,sometimesthatsecondopportunitywillnevercomealong.
This, again, is where pullbacks represent a possible entry point for
newcomerstoastock.Thereisabsolutelynoguaranteethatastockbreak-
ing above its base will provide such an opportunity. The momentum may
simplycarryitskyward,givingnooneasecond chancetogetincheaply.
But if you have a lower tolerance for risk, you may want to acquire only
during a pullback. Using 3M again as an example (Figure 10.6), the pull-
backtookoverayeartohappen(andthenonlybecausetherewasamajor
marketcrashtoprovidesuchapullback),butthearrowillustrateswhere

P1:OTA
c10 JWBT295-Knight May5,2010 8:22 Printer:Yettocome
246 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
FIGURE 10.6 Thispullbackerasedmostofthegainsenjoyedsincethebreakout,
butitdidnotviolatethepattern.
morecautiousbuyerscouldhaveacquiredthestockatarelativelymodest
priceasweakerholdersofthestocksolditofftoprebreakoutlevels.
PRICE FAILURE
Theoppositeofapricebreakoutisapricefailure,orbreakdown.Therules
areverysimilartowhatyou’velearnedaboutpricebreakouts,exceptthat
instead of prices moving above resistance, prices are moving below sup-
port.Iftheydoso,itislikelytheywillcontinuemovingsubstantiallylower
asthemassofbuyersattheformerpricerangeloseshopeandsellsoffthe
stock.
Monsanto (Figure 10.7) provides a clear example of this. The price
of the stock had a range of about $27 to $36. Holders of the stock were
surely getting anxious and frustrated that their investment wasn’t really
doinganything.Thepsychologyofstockholderswhenastockdipsbelow
supportisquitedifferentfromwhenitpushesaboveresistance;insteadof
greedandexcitement(whichdrivesmorebuyingandhigherprices),there
isfearandpanic(whichcompelssellingandlowerprices).Justasbuying
athigherpricescanfeedonitself,sellingatlowerpricescan,too.

P1:OTA
c10 JWBT295-Knight May5,2010 8:22 Printer:Yettocome
RoundedTopsandSaucers 247
FIGURE 10.7 MonsantoCorporation(symbolMON)lostabouthalfitsvaluefol-
lowingthisfallbeneathsupport.
As with price breakouts, the power of a price breakdown is partly
based on the amount of time that the stock has been trapped within a
certain range. If a person has been holding onto a security for years, and
whenthatsecurityfinallydoesmakeamove,it’salosingmove,thetypical
holderwillvow“Enoughisenough”andsimplysellthestockoutoffrustra-
tionanddespair.Figure10.8showsthechartofacompanycalledHop-In,
FIGURE 10.8 Hop-InInc.(symbolHPNN)lostalmost100percentofitsvaluefol-
lowingthishugetop.

P1:OTA
c10 JWBT295-Knight May5,2010 8:22 Printer:Yettocome
248 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
which, after falling below its support level, lost virtually all of its value.
Clearly, there are fundamentals at play here, too—any company whose
price could get this ruined had some core problems in its business. But
stockpriceactionoftenprecedespublicknowledgeoffundamentalissues.
Thestockactiondidn’tcausethecompany’scollapse,butitcertainlysaw
itcoming.
SAUCER BOTTOMS
Letusturnourattentionnowtosaucers,whicharetheclean,well-formed
version of breakout patterns. It takes years of experience to be able to
swiftly go through charts and spot patterns, but, to use an astronomical
metaphor,thesaucer istheBigDipperofchartpatterns—soeasytospot
thatjustaboutanyonecandoit.
Figure10.9showsanactualpricechartwithasaucershapedrawnbe-
lowittoemphasizethepattern’spresence.Thisisaboutasidealasaucer
as you will see in the real world. Keep in mind there is no crew of stock-
holderswhosepurposeitistohammeroutawell-definedshapeonachart.
Thesepatternsareformedasaconsequenceofthousandsofpeoplepush-
ingmillionsofdollarsaround.Itisonlywhenmasspsychologyonastock
is behaving in such a way as to form a clean pattern that these become
evident.
FIGURE 10.9 The basic saucer formation is illustrated here with the semi-oval
drawnbeneaththechart.

P1:OTA
c10 JWBT295-Knight May5,2010 8:22 Printer:Yettocome
RoundedTopsandSaucers 249
FIGURE 10.10 Alvarian(symbolALVR)lookedlikeitwouldbreakoutofitssaucer
patterninDecember,butittookseveralmoremonthsbeforethestockwasactually
readytomovehigher.
Theingredientsforapotentsaucerbreakoutare:
(cid:1)
Acleanpattern—thecleanerandmoredefined,thebetter.
(cid:1)
Longevity—thelongerthepattern,thebetter.
(cid:1)
Volumeincreaseafterthebreakout—thebigger,thebetter.
AbeautifulexampleofthisisFigure10.10,whichisthechartofAlvar-
ian.Thehorizontallineshowstheresistancelevel.Foraboutthefirsthalf
ofthechart,thepricemeandersbetweenabout$1.80and$2.50.Thepattern
formedisn’tanabsolutelyperfectsaucer,butitisfairlyclean.Thelength
ofthepatternisimpressive—morethanayear.Andbestofall,thepickup
in volume after the breakout is superb. You can see on the lower graph
(which shows the volume bars) that volume increases more and more as
thepricelaunchesfrom$2.50to$15inlessthanoneyear.
An even more impressive example is shown with Figure 10.11, which
hadachartpatternspanningnotjustoneyearbutmorethantwo.Thevol-
ume was terrifically higher after the breakout than before. Another inter-
estingaspectofthischartisthatafterthesaucerbreakout,anentirelynew
pattern took hold—a channel, illustrated by the ascending parallel lines
thatboundthestockpriceasitmovedfrom$10tofivetimesthatamount.
The importance of strong volume after a breakout cannot be over-
stated. Volume is the fuel that drives prices higher, as it was with the

P1:OTA
c10 JWBT295-Knight May5,2010 8:22 Printer:Yettocome
250 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
FIGURE 10.11 BuildingMaterials(symbolBMHC)sawitsvolumeexplodeandits
pricegointoasteadychannelaftermovingaboveitssaucerbreakout.
astonishingascentofHansenNatural’sprice,showninFigure10.12.When
volume is going up at the same time as a price is going up, the mar-
ket is saying that more and more people are willing to pay increasingly
higher prices. As it does this, media and other attention is focused on
thestock.
FIGURE 10.12 Strongvolumeiskeytoasteadyascentinprices,asHansen(sym-
bolHANS)showshere.

P1:OTA
c10 JWBT295-Knight May5,2010 8:22 Printer:Yettocome
RoundedTopsandSaucers 251
FIGURE 10.13 Thisclose-upofHansenNaturalillustratesthatalthoughittook
afewmonthsafterthebreakout,volumeexplodedhigheroncethepriceascentwas
underway.
Insomecases,justassomepeoplearefamousforbeingfamous,some
stocks go higher simply because they are known for going higher. This is
sometimescalledthegreaterfooltheory,meaningthatbuyersofthestock
realize they are paying an exorbitant price for it, but they are confident a
foolgreaterthanthemselveswillbewillingtopayanevenhigherprice,as
somanyhavedonebeforethem.
The increase in the price of Hansen Natural Corporation (symbol
HANS)wassoamazingthatitwarrantsacloserexaminationwithrespect
tothevolumechange.LookingatFigure10.13,youcanseethattheprice
brokeaboveitsformerresistancelevelof$3.50afterhavingtradedbelow
that price for many years. Notice that volume did not instantly explode
higher. After a breakout, sometimes the volume soars, and sometimes it
doesn’t. The market may be acting with caution toward a stock such as
this,evenafterabreakout,simplybecauseithasbeensoinactiveandun-
excitingforsomanyyears.
Theareahighlightedwithanovalshowswhenvolumeofthestockdid
finallypickup.Therecouldbemanyreasonsforthis—therecommendation
of a popular newsletter or the buy rating of a major analyst who initiates
coverageofthestock.Nomatterwhatthereason,theexplosioninvolume
isgoingtogetjustasmuchattentionastheincreaseinprice,sincethisis
the market’s affirmation that it believes in the new direction of the stock
andiswillingtoputitsdollarsbehindthemovement.

P1:OTA
c10 JWBT295-Knight May5,2010 8:22 Printer:Yettocome
252 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
FIGURE 10.14 Whensaucerpatternsfirstbreakout,theyarenotalwaysasob-
viousastheyareonalong-termchart.
One of the real tricks to recognizing patterns is to be able to do so
beforeyouhavemuchperspective.Inotherwords,lookingatamultiyear
chart, most people can easily spot patterns that took place long ago. But
beingabletodiscernapatternwhenitactuallycompletesismuchmoredif-
ficult,becauseoftenthescaleofthechartmakesthepatternnotveryobvi-
ous.LookatFigure10.14andnoticethatthepriceactionisrelativelymessy
(andit’sevenmessierwithouttheclaritythatthehorizontallinehelpsbring
toit).Inretrospect,onewouldseethiswasarathercleanbreakoutfroma
saucerpattern,butatthetimethisbreakouttookplace,itwouldnothave
beennearlyaseasytodiscern.
The other challenge with buying breakouts is that once the pattern
completes, the stock might seem too expensive. Figure 10.15 provides a
nice illustration of this. In this instance, the stock struggled for years, fi-
nally pushing its way from $7 to $22 before it finally broke above a very
well-formedsaucer.Manypeopleatthetimewouldthinktwiceaboutbuy-
ingsuchastock,sinceithadalreadymovedupover200percent.Thepara-
doxisthatthisisinfacttheidealtimetopurchasethestock,sinceithas
already proven itself with the pattern breakout. As is so often the case, it
wentontomuchhigherpricesoncethepatterncompleted.
The oldsaying that history repeats itselfis truefor technical analysis
(indeed, it’sasignificant part ofthe basis for technical analysis). This ap-
plies to patterns as well, particularly within the same stock. If you notice
a particular stock is prone to a certain pattern (be it a saucer, head and

P1:OTA
c10 JWBT295-Knight May5,2010 8:22 Printer:Yettocome
RoundedTopsandSaucers 253
FIGURE 10.15 This stock consolidated for almost two years before pushing
higher,andithadalreadytripledinpricebythetimeitbrokeout.
shoulders,orwhathaveyou),itislikelyyou’llseemorethanoneinstance
ofthatpatternforthatstock.
This can be helpful, since as you become acquainted with the price
behaviorofaparticularstock,youcanbetteranticipateitsnextmove.The
patternisn’talwaysthesamelengtheachtime,asFigure10.16shows,but
FIGURE 10.16 Saucer patterns can repeat themselves in the same chart. Here
we see a nearly seven-year saucer breakout, followed by a much smaller one-year
saucerduringmorerecenthistory.

P1:OTA
c10 JWBT295-Knight May5,2010 8:22 Printer:Yettocome
254 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
FIGURE 10.17 Thisstockhadamajordoublebottombeforeconsolidatinginto
asaucerformation.
itsshapeandconsequencestendtobesimilar.Thelongerthepattern,the
morepronouncedtheconsequences.
Let’s take a look at a few more saucers to complete the picture. As
stated earlier, the length of the pattern has a lot to do with how much
force comes afterward. Figure 10.17 has a couple of interesting features.
First, the pattern is nearly six years long (with the breakout price being
$5). Second, another bullish indication takes place during the formation
ofthepattern:adoublebottominprice,wherethepricehitabout$1.00in
thefirsthalfof1999andagainduringthefirsthalfof2000.Thisrefusalof
themarkettosellthestockatanylowerpricesgavebuyerstheconfidence
theyneededtokeepmovingthepricehigher.Whenitdidfinallybreak$5,
in spite of having moved up 400 percent already, it proceeded to $30 and
beyond.
Dismissingtheideathatastockistooexpensivebecauseithasmoved
upalotinpricealreadyiscriticaltoacquiringstockswithmajorreturns.
Stocksdon’tgofrom$1to$5overnight.Theygetthereadollaratatime.
So even when the stock has moved from $1 to $5, you still have ample
opportunityforprofit,inspiteofthe400percentmovethathaspassedyou
byalready.
WholeFoods,forinstance(Figure10.18),wasastockpowerhousefor
years. From 1998 through 2001, the stock hammered out a pattern rang-
ing from about $7.50 to $17.50. In late 2001 and early 2002, Whole Foods
pushed away from its basing pattern, only to subsequently ease back to

P1:OTA
c10 JWBT295-Knight May5,2010 8:22 Printer:Yettocome
RoundedTopsandSaucers 255
FIGURE 10.18 Popular grocer Whole Foods (symbol WFMI) formed a beautiful
saucerfrom1998through2001beforebreakingout,pullingback,andthenfinally
movingsignificantlyhigherinprice.
the$17.50pricelevel.Asyouknow,thispresentedanidealopportunityto
acquirethestock.Thetime-consumingandnail-bitingpullbackwasalready
finished, and you could purchase the stock knowing that any meaningful
descent was less likely since it was once again at a support level. Sure
enough,thestockmarchedfrom$17.50upintothe$80rangewithinafew
years.
A similar example with a very different kind of retailer can be seen
with Wal-Mart (Figure 10.19). Here again we see the laborious, multiyear
process of the saucer being formed (1993 through 1997), followed by a
breakout, a pullback, and a subsequent ascent. WMT pushed from its
proven support level of $15 to a handsome price of $65 in just a couple
ofyears.
You’ve seen many examples of multihundred-percent profits that are
possible with saucer patterns. Equally exciting profits can be enjoyed if
weturnthisconceptupsidedownandlookfortoppingpatternsinsteadof
basingones.
ROUNDED TOP PATTERNS
When you are a skilled technician, you can make money in both bull and
bearmarkets.Whenthemarketisgoingdown,mostoftheinvestingpublic

P1:OTA
c10 JWBT295-Knight May5,2010 8:22 Printer:Yettocome
256 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
FIGURE 10.19 RetailpowerhouseWal-Mart(symbolWMT)explodedhigherafter
thisfive-yearsaucerpatternwasfinished.
is frustrated at not being able to make money. Typically, they stick with
stocks as their values decrease. The skilled use of technical analysis al-
lowsyoutoavoidtheselossesandactuallymakeprofitsfromthedeclining
valuesofstocks.
Inthecontextofthischapter,thepatternmostindicativeofalooming
pricedecreaseistheroundedtop.Thisisexactlythesameinappearance
asthesaucer,exceptthatitisturnedupsidedown.Inaway,therulesare
turnedupsidedownaswell.
With a saucer (or basing) pattern, the buying public is trying to push
prices past a certain level of resistance. Over the course of time—years,
sometimes—amassofownersareaccumulatedatarelativelysimilarprice
level, and this creates a floor of support for the price from which it can
movehigher.
Witharoundedtop,asimilarsituationtakesplace,butthepricefalls
below the mass of owners instead of above it. What this means is that as
thepriceattemptstomovehigheragain,itwillbemetwithawallofsellers.
Figure10.20showshowTerraIndustriestradedforyearsjustabovethe$10
level.Oncethesellingbegan,therewasnoturningback.Eventhoughpeo-
ple were buying the stock, they were doing so at lower and lower prices.
Thedesireoftheownersbetween$10and$12togetoutofthestockand
cuttheirlosseswassimplytoostrong.
Roundedtopsareevenmorepotentwhenthebreakbelowthesupport
levelbeginswithagapdown.TakethecaseofJacuzzi(Figure10.21).The

P1:OTA
c10 JWBT295-Knight May5,2010 8:22 Printer:Yettocome
RoundedTopsandSaucers 257
FIGURE 10.20 TerraIndustries(symbolTRA)wassteadilytradingatabout$10
formanyyears,butonceitcrackedbeneathsupport,ithada90percentlossinjust
18months.
supportpricewasabout$25.Inmid-1998,thestockstarteditstradingday
at $20, leaving a $5 gap in price between its last close and its next open.
Thiswouldhavebeenterriblydemoralizingtoallownersofthestock,and
thesell-offwasstrong.Evenifthecompanyhadamajorturnaroundlater,
itwouldhavebeendifficulttoovercomethewallofstockownerseagerto
getoutofthestockatthebestpricepossible.Onceamassofownershas
FIGURE 10.21 Jacuzzi (symbol JJZ) fell from $25 to $2 after it gapped down
beneatharoundedtopinmid-1998.

P1:OTA
c10 JWBT295-Knight May5,2010 8:22 Printer:Yettocome
258 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
FIGURE 10.22 Thisiswhataroundedtoplookslikeshortlyaftertheinitialbreak.
beenhitwithaloss,youcanexpectmanyofthemtobethinkingthesame
thing:“IfIcanjustgetoutofthisatbreakeven,I’llbehappy.”Sothesellers
arelinedup,readytopounce.
Pricemovementafterastocksinksbeneatharoundedtopcanbedev-
astating.Thiscanbegoodforyouintwoways:ifyouarelongthestock,it’s
a strong indication that you had better get out; if you have no position in
thestock,youmightevenconsidershortingitorbuyingputsonit.(Actu-
ally,ifyou’relongthestock,youwouldbewisetosetastop-lossorderjust
beneaththesupportlevelsothatyouneedn’tmonitorthestockthroughout
thetradingday.)
A stock’s break beneath support can be fast, as illustrated in Figure
10.22,inwhichthestockfellbyathirdinjustoneday.However,piercing
supportisoftenjustaprecursorofmoredeclinestocome.
For an example of this, examine the chart for OMG in Figure 10.23.
The support level for this stock was about $42.50. It had already fallen
from $72.50 (and it should be noted here that just as you should not shy
awayfromastockbecauseithasgoneuptoomuchinpricewhenitbreaks
above resistance, you should likewise not assume that a stock has fin-
ished falling in price when it breaks beneath support, just because it has
alreadyfallenalot).Thestocktradedforoveraweekjustbeneathitsfor-
mersupport line. Thiswouldgiveowners ofthestockampleopportunity
to get out, as well as give newcomers to the stock an opportunity to sell
itshort.

P1:OTA
c10 JWBT295-Knight May5,2010 8:22 Printer:Yettocome
RoundedTopsandSaucers 259
FIGURE 10.23 OMGroup(symbolOMG)fellsoswiftlyafterthisroundedtopthat
somemightthinkthesymbolstoodforOhMyGod.
Whenthestockstartedtocollapse,itdidn’ttakelongtolosevirtually
all of its value. Support had been broken, and there was no turning back.
Thesellingkeptfeedingonitself,andwhatusedtobea$70stockwasnow
a $4stock. Those who recognized therounded topformation would have
hadplentyofopportunitytosparethemselveslosses(hadtheybeenlong)
andevenmakemoney(hadtheybeenshort)withthisinsight.
You’llrecallthatwhenastockpushesaboveitssaucerpattern,itsome-
timesgivespeopleasecondopportunitytobuyintothestockatattractive
pricesbypullingbackinprice.Theroundedtophasthispropertyaswell
(but,again,inreverse).Let’stakeamomenttothinkaboutthepsychology
behindthisphenomenon.
LookatFigure10.24andimaginethepointofviewofthepeoplewho
purchasedSolectron(symbolSLR)in1999and2000.Thestockwasbounc-
ingbetween$30and$50.Withinthisrange,somepeoplehadprofits(such
asthosewhoboughtataround$30),andothershadlosses(likethosewho
acquireditat$50).Sotherewasamixedbagofwinnersandlosersatthese
pricelevels.Everyonewantsaprofit,andnobodywantsaloss.
NowimaginethesituationinMarch2001asthestocksankbeneathits
$30 support level. Some people started to panic and the selling mounted,
because at this point all the buyers from $30 to $50 had lost money. The
stockrapidlylosthalfofitsvalue,andthesellingfinallyabatedat$15.
This is when the pullback begins. Others begin to take an interest in
this stock, which is having a half-off sale (it used to be $30, and now it is

P1:OTA
c10 JWBT295-Knight May5,2010 8:22 Printer:Yettocome
260 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
FIGURE 10.24 Solectron(symbolSLR)fellfrom$30to$2onceitfailedtohold
aboveitssupportlevel.
only $15), so buyers start to nibble at it. As the stock begins to recover
to $20 and then to $25, interest in the stock increases. But the balance
betweensellersandbuyersstartstoequalizeasthestockapproaches$30,
and as technicians we know the reason why: because we are now at the
lower boundary of that mass of buyers who purchased in the $30 to $50
pricerange.Allthosepeoplewhoboughtatabout$30nowseeareprieve
from their misfortune of having a losing stock (keep in mind, they were
staringata50percentlossonlyweeksbefore),andtheyrushtopushthe
Sellbuttonontheirbrowsers.Thesellingstartsanew.
As you can tell from the graph, the waves of selling and buying con-
tinueuntilthestockisvirtuallyworthless.Thesell-offsindicatewhenthe
sellersareoverwhelmingthebuyers,andtherecoveryperiodsshowwhen
buyersbelievetheyaregettingabargainonastockthathasbottomedout.
Thisplaysitselfoutuntilallthesellingiscompletelyexhausted.
A very similar story happened to Lucent Technologies (symbol LU),
which benefited from the Internet mania of the late 1990s by being a
provider of network and communications products (Figure 10.25). The
stockgotuptoabout$85withahugemassofbuyersbetween$50and$85.
Inthesummerof2000,allnetworkingstocksweakened,andLUfellunder-
neathits$50supportlevel.Onethingtonoteinthisgraphisthatstocksdo
not collapse instantly: it took a full two years for LU to fully unwind and
fall,ultimately, toabout 55 cents. There was plenty of timeto profit from
sellingthisstockshortorowningputsonit.

P1:OTA
c10 JWBT295-Knight May5,2010 8:22 Printer:Yettocome
RoundedTopsandSaucers 261
FIGURE 10.25 Oneofthebigwinnersofthetelecombubbleof1999/2000was
Lucent (symbol LU). Once the bubble burst, heralded by the rounded top, LU de-
scendedfrom$50tonearly$0.
Everystockcharttellsadifferentstory,andeventhoughpatternsof-
tenplayoutwithsimilardirectionalmovements,thespeedofthosemove-
ments varies quite a bit. Figure 10.26 provides a nice contrast to the LU
graph.Weseetheclassicsignsofaroundedtop:thewell-definedsupport
line,thebreakbeneathsupport,andthesubsequentrecoveryuptothefor-
mer support level. Unlike Lucent, however, this stock subsequently took
only about a week to wipe out virtually all of its equity value. Those who
entered short positions at the recovery level of about $7 would have en-
joyedveryrapidprofitsinthiscase.
Another crucial aspect of rounded tops is that, to be profitable, they
needtobeprecededbyameaningfulascentinprice.Ifastockhastraded
between$10and$12foryears,andthenitcreatesaroundedtopbetween
$12and$13,it’snotgoingtomatterverymuchifitfallsbeneathitssupport
level. The reason is that there is already a huge mass of buyers from $10
to$12tosupportit.Amoreexcitingpatternwouldbeforastockthathas
gonefrom$1to$80andformsaroundedtopbetween$80and$90.Inthat
instance,thestockhasplentyofroomtofall.
TakeIpsco(symbolIPS)asanexample,showninFigure10.27.There
is a rounded top over the span of about two and a half months starting
in March and ending in mid-May. In less than a year, the stock has risen
from $42.50 to $110, thus providing plenty of empty air for the stock to

P1:OTA
c10 JWBT295-Knight May5,2010 8:22 Printer:Yettocome
262 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
FIGURE 10.26 Afailurefollowingaroundedtopcanbeextremelyswift.Ittook
onlyafewtradingsessionstowipeoutvirtuallytheentirevalueofthissecurity.
startfalling.Aroundedtop,therefore,hastobeatthetopofsomething.It
cannotsimplybeacurvatureinagraphthathasn’tmovedupmuchinthe
firstplace.
A more dramatic example of this concept is shown with Coventry
Health(Figure10.28),whichalsopointsouthowmultiplepatternsortech-
niques can be used together. Coventry Health had climbed from $2 to
FIGURE 10.27 This is what a reversal formation in the form of a rounded top
lookslike.Inthisinstance,thesecurityisIpsco(symbolIPS).

P1:OTA
c10 JWBT295-Knight May5,2010 8:22 Printer:Yettocome
RoundedTopsandSaucers 263
FIGURE 10.28 ThisroundedtopforCoventryHealth(CVH)tookplaceattheend
ofamajorascendingtrendline.
$62 in about six years. Three things happened, however, to indicate this
wouldbeagoodstocktosellorevensellshort.First,theascendingtrend
line spanning back to 1999 had been broken; second, a rounded top had
formedoverthespanofabouthalfayear;andthird,thepricehadsubse-
quently climbed back both to the rounded top’s former support level and
to the trendline itself, indicating a low-risk/high-return place to short the
security.
Themorerapidtheascent,themorerapidthesubsequentfall.Thisis
not true every single time, but it’s a good general rule to remember. The
NASDAQCorporation(Figure10.29)enjoyedanalmost10-foldincreasein
just over a year. Once the support level at $35 was broken, however, the
move down did not take long. This graph illustrates just the beginning of
the fall, but prices lower than this happened soon, simply because there
werenotmanyownersofthestockattheselevels.Ifapriceisfallingona
stockwhoseascentwasswift,thedownwardfallcanresembleahotknife
throughbutter.
Althoughsupportlinesareeasiesttoperceiveiftheyareperfectlyhor-
izontal, there are times when this isn’t the case. The support line has to
be straight, but it can be at a slight angle, such as is illustrated by Figure
10.30.Psychologically,it’sclearestifthelineishorizontal,becauseevery-
onesharesasimilarpanicprice.Butfromachartist’sperspective,aslightly
angledline(eitherupwardordownward)isacceptable.

P1:OTA
c10 JWBT295-Knight May5,2010 8:22 Printer:Yettocome
264 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
FIGURE 10.29 TheNASDAQ(symbolNDAQ)Corporationwentthroughamajor
reversalthatculminatedinthisroundedtop.
PATTERN FAILURES AND BREAKDOWNS
It can be very tempting, having seen the charts in this chapter that show
subsequentexplosions(orcollapses)inprice,torushoutandtrytofindev-
erysaucerpatternandroundedtopyoucanlocate.Keepinmindthatthese
chartsareparticularlygoodexamplesofsuchpatterns,anditisabsolutely
FIGURE 10.30 Not all tops have to be perfectly horizontal. This rounded top
showsthatthepullbackwasbasedonatiltedsupport/resistanceline.

P1:OTA
c10 JWBT295-Knight May5,2010 8:22 Printer:Yettocome
RoundedTopsandSaucers 265
notthecasethatapricewillbehaveasitissupposedtobehaveonceapar-
ticularpatterniscompleted.Letusexaminesomechartswherejustabout
everything seemed perfect, but the price action contradicted the predic-
tion. It is important to see these examples to understand how the predic-
tivepowerofpatternsislimitedandtounderstandwhattowatchoutfor
soyoudon’tholdapositionthatisn’tworkingoutthewayyouanticipated.
Figure 10.31 provides an extraordinary example. Notice first the bas-
ingactionintheleftthree-quartersofthechart.Theresistancelineisvery
welldefinedat$10,andwhenthepricedoespushpastthisline,itexplodes
higher.Indeed,thestockrisesalmost20-fold,sosavvyownersofthisstock
would indeed have benefited from recognizing the saucer and the impor-
tanceofmovingabove$10.However,thestock’srisewasshort-lived,and
the price fell so hard and fast it even dipped briefly below $10 again. Pa-
tientownersofthisstockwouldhavebeenprofoundlyfrustratedthattheir
1,900percentgainshadwitheredawayto50percent.
Farworsethanhavingprofitsattenuatedistowindupwithanoutright
loss. Bookham Technologies (symbol BKHM) had formed a magnificent
pattern between about $7 and $30 (Figure 10.32). It broke cleanly above
$30, and savvy buyers at this level surely must have had hopes that the
stockwouldreach$100,$150,orevenbeyond.Thebreakoutfaltered,how-
ever, and the fact that the price sank beneath its former support level
shouldhavesetoffalarmbellsforexperiencedchartists.
If a stock moves above its resistance level, it’s perfectly acceptable
for it to tumble back to that level after its initial rise. But if it clearly
movesbeneaththatlevel,thenthebreakouthasvirtuallynovalue.Forour
FIGURE 10.31 Inspiteoftheexplosiveriseofthisstock,inthelongterm,the
pricewounduplittlechanged.

P1:OTA
c10 JWBT295-Knight May5,2010 8:22 Printer:Yettocome
266 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
FIGURE 10.32 Bookham(symbolBKHM)brokeaboveanicely-formedsaucer,but
afterfailingtofollowthrough,itlostvirtuallyitsentirevalue.
purposes,thebreakoutnolongerexists,becausethepricecouldn’tsustain
its new level. In the case of BKHM, the stock slipped to $25, then to $20,
andultimatelycollapsedtonear$0.Youcanplainlyseehowitisamistake
to hold onto a stock once its pattern breakout has been neutralized by
subsequentpricefailure.
Arbinet (symbol ARBX, shown in Figure 10.33) buyers experienced a
similar disappointment. For nearly a year, the stock had moved between
$6 and $8, accumulating buyers and interest at those price levels. At last,
late in April, the stock pushed above $8, and it spent several sessions
above that price, appearing to ready itself for a much higher price level.
ButinonetradingsessionearlyinMay,thepricemovedtotheotherside
of the former resistance line. Knowledgeable chartists would have seen
this as an opportunity to exit the position immediately. Indeed, it would
be wise for buyers of this stock to have placed stop-loss orders at the
$7.99level(orsomewhatlowertoallowformarketnoise)toprotecttheir
positions.
Thechartfor7/24Solutions(Figure10.34,symbolSVNX)isespecially
interesting since it has not one but two resistance lines. The stock had
fallenterrificallyfrom2000to2002,losingvirtuallyallofitsvalue.In2003
and 2004, the price steadied, and a near textbook-quality saucer pattern
was hammered out, illustrated by the lower horizontal line representing
resistance. It moved above this level and made an assault on the
higher horizontal line, representing the next level of resistance. This,

P1:OTA
c10 JWBT295-Knight May5,2010 8:22 Printer:Yettocome
RoundedTopsandSaucers 267
FIGURE 10.33 Arbinet (symbol ARBX) pushed above a nearly year-long resis-
tancelineonlytoquicklyfallbackbeneathit.
too, was pierced, indicating what seemed like a great future for this
stock.
Sadly,thepricefaltered.Itfellbeneaththeupperhorizontalline,and
itwasn’tlongbeforeitwasbeloweventhelowerhorizontalline.Thestock
wasbacktoitsoldways,flounderingataverylowpricelevel,thedisheart-
enedbuyersofthestockhavinggivenuponit.Skilledchartistswouldhave
FIGURE 10.34 7/24Solutions(symbolSVNX)hadatextbook-qualitysaucerpat-
tern,butthestockswiftlyweakenedandplungedbacktoitshistoriclows.

P1:OTA
c10 JWBT295-Knight May5,2010 8:22 Printer:Yettocome
268 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
FIGURE 10.35 Compare this chart of Owens Illinois to Figure 10.2. In spite of
theinitialgains,thestockeventuallyweakenedandwentontoasubstantialloss.
savedthemselvesmuchofthispainbyrecognizingthattheyshouldgetout
immediatelywhenthehigherlinewasviolated.
A stock can be very successful for you but then turn sour. Much
earlier in this chapter, Figure 10.2 showed how Owens Illinois enjoyed
multihundred percent gains from 1996 through mid-1998. Taking the
longer-termperspective,however,wecanseethesegainsweretemporary
(Figure 10.35). By 2000, the stock was down to about $2.50, a staggering
loss in value. Waiting until the stock fell all the way below its former re-
sistance level would not be recommended for a stock that had already
climbed so much—an ascending trend line would have given you much
earlier warning. The point is, however, that patterns do not guarantee fu-
tureresults.Theysimplyaidinpredictingshort-termdirection.
Toclosethistopicaswellasthischapter,letuslookatonefinalstock
example:AvalonBay(symbolAVB),whichhelpsillustrateagainhowmuch
protectiontechnicalanalysiscanprovidewhenusedproperly.Figure10.36
shows a rounded top that would thrill most individuals hoping to sell the
stockshort.Everythingaboutthetopseemsproper,andusingtraditional
measurement techniques, we could conclude this stock was going to fall
from $28 to $18, generating a handsome profit for those who were short
thestockorlongputoptions.
Thefactis,however,thateventhoughthestockdidindeedsinkbelow
$28,itdidn’tstaytherelong.Itpausedtherebrieflyandthenbeganmoving
higher. That would have been the signal for bears to close their positions

P1:OTA
c10 JWBT295-Knight May5,2010 8:22 Printer:Yettocome
RoundedTopsandSaucers 269
FIGURE 10.36 This chart of Avalon Bay (symbol AVB) appears to be breaking
beneathsupportandonitswaytoamajorfall.
at once for a very small loss. If a stock in this kind of pattern can muster
thekindofstrengthtoshakeoffapatternofthissize,thestockbuyersare
far too strong for the sellers (Figure 10.37). It is wise to move out of the
way quickly. In this instance, once the stock recomposed itself, it moved
higher many hundreds of percent. Those short the stock who refused to
covertheirpositionswouldhavebeenwipedout.
FIGURE 10.37 The longer-term chart of AVB, as compared with Figure 10.36,
shows that the stock recovered quickly from its weakness and went on to a multi-
hundredpercentreturn.

P1:OTA
c10 JWBT295-Knight May5,2010 8:22 Printer:Yettocome
270 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
SUMMARY
Thischapterhasgivenustwopowerfultoolsforrecognizingmajorturning
pointsinastock’sdirection:saucers(whichestablishabasefromwhicha
stockmaylaunchitselfhigher)androundedtops(whichshowtheexhaus-
tionofastock’supwardmovementandprovideanopportunitytosellthe
stockshort).Inthenextchapter,wewillexamineamorespecializedform
ofabasingpatternknownasacupwithhandle.

P1:OTA
c11 JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 9:45 Printer:Yettocome
C H A P T E R 11
Cup with Handle
I
n the previous chapter we learned (among other subjects) about the
saucer pattern, in which prices consolidate beneath a resistance level
andgraduallyrampuptoburstabovethatresistancelevel.Thesaucer
pattern can be very powerful if it is at the bottom of a chart after a long
descent and if it is accompanied by a substantial volume increase during
thebreakout.
A relative of the saucer pattern is one identified by newspaper pub-
lisher and author William O’Neil as the “cup with handle” pattern (which
heintroducedinhis1988book,How to Make Money in Stocks).Thispat-
ternhasasaucershape,butinsteadofbreakingaboveresistance,itpauses
and hammers out a smaller, shallower saucer referred to as the handle.
When the pattern is complete, it roughly resembles an edge-on view of a
teacup.Itisformedinthismanner:
(cid:1)
Sellersareincontrolofthemarketasthestockpricedecreases (this
istheleftsideofthecup).
(cid:1)
Anequilibriumiscreatedbetweenbuyersandsellersasthepricesta-
bilizes(thisisthebaseofthecup).
(cid:1)
Ariseinpricetakesplaceasbuyinginterestandstrengthincrease(this
istherightsideofthecup).
(cid:1)
Ahesitationonthepartofthemarketoccursasthepriceagainmoves
awayfromresistance,butnotnearlyasdeepasbefore.
(cid:1)
Arenewedinterestinthestockcomesabout,completedbyabreakout
aboveresistance(thiscompletesthehandleandtheentirepattern).
271

P1:OTA
c11 JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 9:45 Printer:Yettocome
272 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
FIGURE 11.1 This chart of Red Hat shows an almost perfect cup with handle
formation:Theleftsideisawell-formedcup,andtherightsideisamuchsmaller
dip,formingthehandle.Thevolumealsoincreasessubstantiallyonthebreakout.
Figure 11.1 shows an outstanding example of this pattern. For nearly
two years, the price for Red Hat (symbol RHAT) fluctuated in what prob-
ably seemed at the time to be a relatively random fashion. In retrospect,
it is easy to see the formation. This pattern has been highlighted with
the straight lines on the chart to emphasize where the saucer and the
handleare.
Noticealsothechangeinvolume,highlightedinthelower-rightportion
ofthechart.Volumebeginstoswellasthehandlecompletes,andwhenthe
breakouttakesplace,volumeincreasesdramatically.Thisisanextremely
bullishsignforthestock,sinceitaffirmsasignificant increaseininterest
amongbuyersofthestock.
Whathappenedfollowingthisbreakout(Figure11.2)istypicalofwell-
formedcupwithhandlepatterns:thestockincreasedinvaluesignificantly.
Inthiscase,thestockwentupby200percentinlessthanoneyear.Care-
fully selected call options would have had even more sensational gains
thanthis.
Inthelastchapter,wesawthatsaucerpatternscanrepeatforastock.
Infact,ifyounoticethataparticularstockispronetoaparticularpattern,
itislikelythatyouwillseethatsamepatterninthefuturewiththatstock.

P1:OTA
c11 JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 9:45 Printer:Yettocome
CupwithHandle 273
FIGURE 11.2 Followingthebreakout,indicatedbythearrow,RedHattripledin
price.Volumealsoremainedstrongduringthisperiod.
The same holds true for the cup with handle pattern, and Red Hat again
providesuswithafittingexample(Figure11.3).Aftertheinitialpatternand
200percentincreaseinprice,illustratedinFigures11.1and11.2,thestock
priceeasedbacksignificantly.Itthenbeganforminganother(smaller)cup
with handle pattern, and as before, the stock nearly tripled in price. Both
ofthesebreakoutsarehighlightedwitharrowsonthegraph.
Before continuing, one other fact that should be pointed out is that
thesepricechartsaresplit-adjusted.Forlong-termcharts,thiscanbeex-
tremely significant. A stock split has the effect of reducing the price of a
stock in proportion to the number of the new shares issued. As a simple
example,assumeastockhadfivemillionsharesonthemarketandhada
priceof$100.Furtherassumethattheboardofdirectorsforthiscompany
approvedatwo-for-onestocksplit.Assumingnofurtherpricemovementin
thestock,onthedayofthesplit,thestockwouldbepricedat$50(halfthe
formerprice)and10millionshareswouldbeoutstanding(twiceasmany
as before). So the value of the stock as a whole hasn’t changed, although
thedivisionofthecompany’sshareshas.
Whenyouarelookingatthechartofastockthathassplitanumberof
times,thepriceofthesharesmanyyearsagomayseemextremelycheap.
Thatissimplyaresultofthepricesbeingadjustedtotakeaccountofthe

P1:OTA
c11 JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 9:45 Printer:Yettocome
274 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
FIGURE 11.3 Red Hat actually had two cup with handle patterns in this chart,
andineachinstance,thestockapproximatelytripledinvalue.
splits.Ifthechartshowedtheactualpriceforeverydayofthestock’shis-
tory, the chart would be useless for a technician, because it would have
huge gaps in the price every time a split took place. Using split-adjusted
data is essential for analyzing the chart, which explains why a stock that
traded for $75 in 1974 might show up with a price of $1 during the same
timeframewhenyouexamineitsgraphinthepresentday.
As you have read earlier in this book, the length and strength of a
patternareoftenrelated.3MCorporationprovidesaremarkableexample
of a very large cup with handle pattern and its resulting price movement.
Figure11.4showsacupbeingformedfrom1974through1983andahan-
dle being formed from 1983 to 1986. Although this is an exceptionally
well-formed pattern, even a pattern this good isn’t smooth. We are, after
all,notlookingatadrawingofaphysicalcup.Thisispricemovementmea-
suredoverthousandsofdays,soyoucanexpectarelativelyhighamount
of noise. The experienced chartist learns to filter this out so the pattern
is easy to discern. The resistance (on a split-adjusted basis) was at about
$1.03,whichwashitin1974,1983,and1986.
Figure11.5showsoneofthosekindsofchartsthatmakeapersonwish
foratimemachine—3Mincreased85-foldinprice.A$10,000investmentat
the breakout in 1986 would have grown to $850,000 by 2004. There is a

P1:OTA
c11 JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 9:45 Printer:Yettocome
CupwithHandle 275
FIGURE 11.4 3Mformsamassivecupwithhandlepatternovera12-yearperiod.
FIGURE 11.5 Followingthebreakoutfromthepattern,3Mwentontoanincred-
ible8,500percentgain.

P1:OTA
c11 JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 9:45 Printer:Yettocome
276 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
rectangledrawnaroundthecupwithhandlepatterninthelower-leftpor-
tionofthegraph,andtheriseafterwardwasvirtuallyuninterrupted.
USING THE HORIZONTAL LINE TOOL
YoulearnedhowtousethetrendlinetoolinChapter8andthechanneltool
in Chapter 9. Now we can learn about what is the simplest (but still very
useful) tool on the toolbar, the horizontal line tool (Figure 11.6). As the
namestates,thepurposeofthistoolistodrawahorizontalline.Youcould
do the same thing with the trendline tool, but if you want a perfectly flat
line,itismucheasiertosimplyusethehorizontallinetoolinstead.Thisis
idealfordrawingresistanceandsupportlevels,whichmakesithandyfor
patternssuchassaucers,roundedtops,andcupwithhandlepatterns.
Toputahorizontallineonyourchart,dothefollowing:
1. Clickonthehorizontallinetool,asshowninFigure11.6.
2. Click on the graph approximately at the place you want to place the
line;ahorizontallinewillappear.
3. As you move up and down, the line will move up and down. As you
moveleftandright,thelinewillshrinkandgrow.Movethemouseuntil
thelineisatthelengthandpositionyoudesire,thenclickthemousea
secondtimetocompleteit.
Aswithanydrawnobject,youcanright-clickonacompletedhorizon-
tallinetomodifyit(Figure11.7).Thechoicespresentedare:
Move:Allowsyoutomovethelineorchangeitslength.Whenyouse-
lectthis,twohandlesappear:oneatthestartpointontheleftand
the other at the completion point on the right. Dragging the left
handleletsyoushortenorlengthenthelineontheleft,anddrag-
gingtherighthandleletsyoumovethelineupordownaswellas
shortenorlengthenthelineontheright.
Duplicate:Thiscreatesanidenticalline(samesize,color)nearthefirst
one,andthisduplicatelinewillhavebothhandlespreselectedso
youcanimmediatelymoveittothedesiredlocation.
FIGURE 11.6 The horizontal tool is the fifth selection on the toolbar, located
betweenthechannelandtexttools.

P1:OTA
c11 JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 9:45 Printer:Yettocome
CupwithHandle 277
FIGURE 11.7 Right-clicking on a horizontal line produces this pop-up menu to
modifytheobject.
Change Style/Color: Brings up the same dialog box as was shown in
Figure8.16,allowingyoutochangethecolor,opacity,weight,and
patternoftheline.Youcanalsopreservethesesettingssotheyare
usedasthedefaultforallfuturehorizontallinedrawings.
Extend: As with the same option for trendlines, the Extend function
makesthehorizontallineextendinfinitelyintothefuture.
Show Value: Choosing this puts the price value (that is, the y-axis
value)onthetopleftofthelinesoyoucanreadwhatthesupport
orresistancelevelisforthelineyou’vedrawn.
Delete: Choosing this deletes the selected line. If you make a mis-
take,youcanalwaysundoyourdecisionwiththeUndocommand
(Ctrl-Z).
DeleteAllDrawings:Choosingthisdeletesallthedrawnobjectsonthe
current chart. If you make a mistake, you can always undo your
decisionwiththeUndocommand(Ctrl-Z).
MORE CUP WITH HANDLE EXAMPLES
Notallpatternsareasperfectastheoneswehaveseensofar.Let’slook
atsomeotherhistoricalexamplestohelptrainyoureyestofindthesepat-
terns in your own analysis. Figure 11.8 shows an example of a somewhat
rougher cup with handle. But even though there is a lot of noise in the
chart,therulesweestablishedearlyinthechapterstillholdhere:wehave
a saucer (albeit a rough one) followed by a smaller, shallower saucer on
theright,completedbyabreakoutaboveresistance.

P1:OTA
c11 JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 9:45 Printer:Yettocome
278 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
FIGURE 11.8 ThestockACMRconsolidatedbetween$2and$4.70overaperiod
ofseveralyearswhilecreatingthispattern.
ThearrowinFigure11.9showswherethestockACMRpushedabove
itsresistanceleveltoenjoyafivefoldincreaseinprice.Theshapeandclar-
ity of the pattern are much easier to see on this scale. Only those who
are able to discern the pattern at the time of the breakout are the ones
whowindupprofiting.Findingpatternsinretrospectoncetheyaremuch
cleanerandeasiertoseeissimplyanacademicexercise.
The stock CNP provides another example of a stock that increased
fivefoldsubsequenttoitspattern(Figure11.10).Thisbasingbehaviortook
awhiletocomplete,spanning1977to1985.
Patientobserversofthisstockwererewarded,asFigure11.11shows.
We see here another important aspect of stocks that perform well: a se-
ries of higher highs and higher lows. In 1989, 1994, 1997, and 2001, the
stock sank to short-term lows. But every one of these lows was higher
than the prior low, and every subsequent high was higher than the prior
high. This stairstep movement can be frustrating and nerve-wracking for
holders of the stock, but in the aggregate, that’s where major profits are
made.
The next example illustrates the largest return of any of the charts
in this chapter. The stock is EMC, and Figure 11.12 shows how the stock
movedbetweena6-centand26-centrange(split-adjusted)inthelate1980s
and early 1990s. Those trading the stock at the time perhaps were frus-
tratedatitsperformance.Duringjustacoupleoftradingsessions,thestock
lostmorethanhalfitsvalue(plungingfromasplit-adjusted26centsto10
cents).Butoncethepatternwascomplete,anamazingthinghappened.

P1:OTA
c11 JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 9:45 Printer:Yettocome
CupwithHandle 279
FIGURE 11.9 ACMRincreasedapproximatelyfivefoldafterthebreakoutfromthe
cupandhandlepattern.
As you can see in Figure 11.13, after the stock pushed its way past
the horizontal line at the 26-cent level, it ascended to above $100, which
isabouta400-foldincrease.Hereagainwecouldusethattimemachine:a
$10,000investmentin1992wouldhavegrownto$4millioninamereeight
years.(Thesmallarrowsonthechart,remember,pointoutthetimesthat
thesixstocksplitstookplace).
FIGURE 11.10 CNP shows an almost perfect pattern here as it creates a base
beneaththe$6.30level.

P1:OTA
c11 JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 9:45 Printer:Yettocome
280 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
FIGURE 11.11 CNPproceededtoanearlyfivefoldincreasewithaseriesofhigher
highsandhigherlows.
FIGURE 11.12 HereisthestockEMConasplit-adjustedbasisformingacupwith
handlepatterninthelate1980sandearly1990s.

P1:OTA
c11 JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 9:45 Printer:Yettocome
CupwithHandle 281
FIGURE 11.13 EMCenjoyedaspectacular400-foldincreaseinvalueafteritscup
withhandlepatternwascomplete.
Beforewegettoocarriedawaywithsuchastronomicalreturns,letus
look at two more cup with handle examples with more typical changes
invalue. Figure 11.14 shows thesymbol MTW sporting acup withhandle
patternthathasacoupleofinterestingproperties.First,thetimelengthof
the cup and the length of the handle are about the same. Second, if you
examinethehandleclosely,itseemstobeitselfasmallercupwithhandle
pattern.Thereisnothingwrongwitheitherofthesenuancesofthechart.
Patterns aren’t the same for every chart in every time frame. As you gain
experience looking at hundreds of different charts, you will learn to be
flexible(withinreason)astowhatconstitutesawinningpattern.
Onceagain,thearrowhighlightsforusthepointintimewhentheprice
pushedaboveresistance,eventuallymovingfrom$4toabout$57.Owners
ofthisstockwouldnothavesufferedsomeofthesevereupsanddownsof
otherequities,astheascentofMTWwasrelativelyuninterrupted(Figure
11.15).
Onefinalexampleofthispattern(beforewelookatsomepatternfail-
ures)isstocktickerPTR,whichsportsaratherdaintyhandleonitsright
side(Figure11.16).Itshouldbepointedoutonceagainthatoftenthebest
stocks are those that already seem too expensive. When this stock made
its way above resistance, you would have been fair to observe that it had

P1:OTA
c11 JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 9:45 Printer:Yettocome
282 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
FIGURE 11.14 Here the stock MTW consolidates below the $4 resistance level
beforebreakingaboveit.
FIGURE 11.15 MTW went up virtually uninterrupted after completing the pat-
tern,risingmorethanfourteenfold.

P1:OTA
c11 JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 9:45 Printer:Yettocome
CupwithHandle 283
FIGURE 11.16 HerethestockPTRformsanicepatternbeneaththeresistance
levelat$18.50.
alreadydoubledinpriceinjustayear.Itmightfeeltooriskytobuyintothe
stock. The more potent fact, however, is that it was moving out of a very
large,reliablepattern.
Takingtheriskbybuyingintothisexpensivestockpaidoffremarkably
for those who bought. The price increased from the breakout point (see
arrow)toabout$125inonlyacoupleofyears(Figure11.17).
These examples might seem to make it easy to get huge returns on
stocks, as long as you can locate the right pattern. This is not always the
case.Anypatternispronetofailure,andwhenapatternfails,youshould
getoutofthepositionimmediately.Thefinalportionofthischapterlooks
atthesefailuresandtheirsigns.
PATTERN FAILURES
Take a look at the chart in Figure 11.18. It seems very similar to many of
the other charts shown in this chapter, and a person would be perfectly
reasonable to buy into this stock and anticipate handsome gains. This is,
after all, virtually a textbook example of what a cup with handle pattern
shouldlooklike.

P1:OTA
c11 JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 9:45 Printer:Yettocome
284 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
FIGURE 11.17 The stock PTR went on to a more than sixfold increase in price
afterthepatternwascomplete.
FIGURE 11.18 Here is a virtually perfect cup with handle pattern of the stock
symbolSM.

P1:OTA
c11 JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 9:45 Printer:Yettocome
CupwithHandle 285
FIGURE 11.19 ThebreakabovethecupwithhandlebySMpropelledthestock
toanapproximate150percentincrease.
And in fact, buyers of this stock would have been delighted with the
short-term results of their purchase. The stock, ticker symbol SM, in-
creasedinvalueby150percentinlessthanayear(Figure11.19).
But there’s more to the story than this. Figure 11.20 shows the ini-
tial breakout (with an arrow), the rapid increase in price, and then—
surprisingly—thejustasrapiddecreaseinprice.By1998,everybitofprofit
inthispositionwouldhavebeenwipedout,andyouactuallywouldbehold-
ing onto a losing position. This would be terribly disheartening to those
whohadriddenthestocktoa150percentprofitonlytoseeitdisintegrate
intoaloss.(Itshouldbenoted,inthelongterm,thestockwentontofab-
ulousgainslater,butin1998wewouldnothavehadthebenefitofagraph
extendingyearsintothefuture!)
Howcouldsuchalosshavebeenavoided?Howcouldwehaveatleast
preserved a portion of the profits after that initial 150 percent increase?
Everychartisdifferent,ofcourse,butinthiscase,itprobablywouldhave
been best to monitor the stock for its series of higher highs and higher
lows. As long as the stock was ascending with a pattern of higher highs
andhigherlows,itwouldbeasolidhold.Whenthepricecutbeneathone
of the prior lows, however, it would have been a good time to get out. In
thisinstance,itwouldhavemeantaprofitofabout50percent(insteadof

P1:OTA
c11 JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 9:45 Printer:Yettocome
286 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
FIGURE 11.20 Thepriceviolatedthesupportzoneestablishedbythecupwith
handlepattern.Inspiteofthis,thestockultimatelywentontoamorethan10-fold
increaseinvalue.
150percent),butthat’scertainlyalotbetterthanthelossthatwouldhave
ensuedifthepositionhadsimplybeenheldinspiteofitspriceaction.
One of the most popular securities on the market is the QQQ,
often referred to as the “cubes” and with the ticker symbol QQQQ. This
ETF tracks the performance of the NASDAQ 100 stocks, and the chart in
Figure11.21showstheQQQwithawell-formedcupwithhandleandare-
sistance level of about $40.20. At the time of this chart, the price pushed
cleanlypastthisresistancelevel,portendinggoodtimesforthissecurity.
Look at the longer-term price perspective in Figure 11.22, however.
Thepricebreakoutisindicatedbythearrow,andasyoucansee,theprice
moved up to $42, sank back down to the former resistance level, pushed
higher once again to $43.50, and sank once again to the resistance level,
ascendingyetagain(butnotashighasthelasttime),andthenfinallygave
upandfellhard.
Thiscertainlywasn’ttheresultexpected.TheQQQseemedtoclingto
the $40.20 line and fell to that level repeatedly. On its fourth fall down to
that level, it no longer had the support from buyers that it needed, and it
sank far beneath the initial breakout point. A person steadfastly holding
ontothispositionwouldhavehadasubstantialloss.
The “higher highs, higher lows” would also have been helpful here.
It would not take long to see that no such pattern was forming, and the

P1:OTA
c11 JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 9:45 Printer:Yettocome
CupwithHandle 287
FIGURE 11.21 Basedonthispattern,itseemedthatQQQQwaswell-positioned
forasubstantialpriceincrease.
FIGURE 11.22 Inspiteofthecupwithhandlepatternandthesubsequentprice
actionaboveresistance,QQQQultimatelyfellwellbelowitsformerresistancelevel.

P1:OTA
c11 JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 9:45 Printer:Yettocome
288 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
position could be closed. At a minimum, however, a stop price should al-
ways be set just beneath the former resistance level. In this instance, any
priceactionbelow$40.20wouldbecausetoimmediatelycloseoutthepo-
sition. Even if it means sacrificing former profits, at least you keep your
lossestoanabsoluteminimum.
DIAMONDS AND DEAD-CAT BOUNCES
Thatissurelyoneofthemorepeculiarheadingsinthisbook,butbothof
thesearerealtermsintheworldoftechnicalanalysis.
Adiamondpatternisformedwhenastock’spriceswingsgetsincreas-
ingly wide, and then increasingly narrow, resulting in roughly a diamond
shapewhentrendlinesareapplied.Thispatterncanbebearishorbullish,
dependingonwhetherthepricebreaksaboveorbelowthepattern.
Figure 11.23 shows DirectTV Group in a diamond pattern spanning
from about $18.50 to $28.50. Once it broke out of this pattern to the
upside, it quickly climbed to the mid 30s. The diamond pattern is worthy
FIGURE 11.23 DirectTV’s stock formed a diamond pattern that spanned three
yearsandpresagedastrongpushhigherinprice.

P1:OTA
c11 JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 9:45 Printer:Yettocome
CupwithHandle 289
ofspecialnote,notonlybecauseitisrarebutalsobecauseitisoneofthe
morereliabletechnicalpatterns.
Diamond patterns are just as potent on the bearish side. During the
tremendous commodity boom in the summer of 2008, Alpha Natural Re-
sources (ANR) spent almost that entire summer hammering out a well-
formed diamond pattern. When the pattern was broken to the downside,
ANR lost about 85 percent of its value in just a few months, as shown in
Figure11.24.
There is also a circumstance in technical trading known as a dead-
cat bounce, which is much less well-defined than other patterns we’ve
FIGURE 11.24 BetweenAugustandNovember2008,ANRlostabout85percent
ofitsequityvalue,whichwaspredictedbytheprecedingdiamondpattern.

P1:OTA
c11 JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 9:45 Printer:Yettocome
290 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
discussed. As the name implies, the dead-cat bounce refers to an equity
that has plunged so sharply in value that, at some point, it will probably
bounceupinpricefromasharplyoversoldcondition.
Inthefinancialcrisisof2008–2009,therewerehundredsofstocksthat
lostmorethan90percentoftheirpeakvalue.Inmanycases,thesestocks
gainedhundredsoreventhousandsofpercentaftertheybouncedofftheir
March 2009 lows. Lodgnet Interactive, shown in Figure 11.25, climbed
about 1200 percent off its March 2008 lows after having lost 98 percent
ofitsvaluebefore.
Thereasondead-catbouncesareenticinghastodowithsimplearith-
metic:itisimpossibletomakeanythingmorethan100percentonashort
FIGURE 11.25 Lodgenet went from about $36 to 50 cents during the crisis of
2008,onlytorecoveraportionofthatlossshortlythereafter.

P1:OTA
c11 JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 9:45 Printer:Yettocome
CupwithHandle 291
sale,whereasthepotentialprofitsfromalongpositionareunlimited.Ifyou
hadtheimpeccabletimingtoshortLNETatitspeakandcovertheposition
atitsprecisebottom,youwouldhavemadeahandsome98percentreturn.
However,alongposition(overamuchshortertimespan)wouldhave
yielded 1200 percent with the dead-cat bounce. So even though the vast
majorityofpeoplewhohadeverboughtLNETwerestillinlosingpositions
afterthis1200percentbounce;ifyouhadenteredanywherenearthebot-
tom,thepercentagegainwouldhavebeenfantastic.
An even more remarkable example is found with Pier 1 Imports
(Figure11.26),which,havinglostalmostallitsequityvalue,bounced4300
percent. To put that in concrete terms, a $10,000 investment on March
FIGURE 11.26 Pier-1Importsfellfromthelower$20stomerelyadimeinprice,
afterwhichitdramaticallyclimbed4300percentinhalfayear.

P1:OTA
c11 JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 9:45 Printer:Yettocome
292 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
13 would have been worth over half a million dollars exactly six months
later. Keep in mind that such events are exceedingly rare, but this ampli-
fiesthepotentialofsuchdead-catbounces(eventhoughsomestocksnever
bounceandsimplydriftintoworthlessbankruptcy).
It is all too easy to read a book like this and believe that making a
fortuneinthestockmarketisassimpleashuntingdownpatternssimilar
tothosefoundhere.Thisissimplynotthecase.Thesepatternsrepresent
idealizedexamplesseenwiththebenefitofhindsight.Asyougainexperi-
enceincharting,viewingthousands,tensofthousands,andultimatelyhun-
dredsofthousandsofcharts,youwillbeabletofindpatternsmorereliably
and—far more important—trade them successfully without the benefit of
hindsightthatispossiblewithhistoricalexamples.

P1:OTA
c12 JWBT295-Knight May11,2010 11:43 Printer:Yettocome
C H A P T E R 12
Multiple Tops
and Bottoms
T
his chapter discusses two new, related subjects: how to emphasize
particularpartsofachartwithhighlightingandtext,andhowtorec-
ognizeandprofitfrommultipletopsandbottoms.Whenachartisin
theprocessofcreatingamultipletoporbottom,itishelpfultobeableto
highlightthesezonesasitishappening.
HIGHLIGHTING CHARTS
Itisalmostcertainyouhaveusedawidevarietyofhighlighterpens.These
pens allow you to draw a see-through stripe (usually in yellow) on top of
textinordertocallitoutasimportant.Forinstance,whenreadingatext-
book, you may highlight certain portions so that when you reread it, you
canfocusonjustthemostimportantpartsofthetext.
That is precisely the idea behind both highlighter tools in
ProphetCharts.Eachofthemdoesthesamething:producesasee-through
color in either an oval or rectangular shape (depending on the tool se-
lected).Youcancontrolhowtransparentthecolorisaswellaswhatcolor
isused.
You may be wondering what kinds of things you would want to high-
light.Theanswerisanythingthatmeritsattention.Itcouldbeahugegapin
achart,aseriesoftopsorbottoms,anareaofconsolidation,oraninterest-
ingpricepattern.Justaswithanyoftheotherdrawnobjects,theprinciple
is to embellish the chart in such a way that it is more meaningful to you
bothnowandinthefuture.
293

P1:OTA
c12 JWBT295-Knight May11,2010 11:43 Printer:Yettocome
294 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
FIGURE 12.1 Theovalhighlightingtool.
Applyingahighlighttoachartisverysimple:
1. Choosethetoolyouwant;inthisexample,we’llusetheovaltool(Fig-
ure12.1).
2. Clickonthegraphintheplaceyouwanttostartdrawingtheoval.
3. Dragthemouseuntiltheovalistheshapeandlocationyoudesire,then
clickthemouseoncemore.
AnexampleovalisshowninFigure12.2.Anyovalhasseveralproper-
ties: location, size, color, and opacity. (Opacity is the opposite of trans-
parency; the more opaque something is, the more difficult it is to see
through it.) This particular oval might be representing an important bot-
tominastock’schart.
FIGURE 12.2 Anovalhighlightdrawnonacharttoemphasizeabottominprice
action.

P1:OTA
c12 JWBT295-Knight May11,2010 11:43 Printer:Yettocome
MultipleTopsandBottoms 295
FIGURE 12.3 Therectanglehighlighttool.
Applying a rectangular highlight to a chart is achieved in the exact
same manner as for an oval, with the exception that you choose the rect-
anglehighlighttool(Figure12.3)first.
ThechartinFigure12.4providesanexampleoftheeffectiveuseofa
rectangular highlight. Thisisachart of theDow Jones Industrial Average
spanningfromaboutNovember2005throughJuly2006.Theindexbounced
offfirmsupportatthe10,660levelonnumerousoccasions.Thepurposeof
this highlight is to show this support zone and to emphasize the conse-
quencestothemarketshouldthezonebeviolated.(Bythetimeyouread
this, you will be aware of how things turned out! As of this writing, the
markethasnosuchknowledge.)
Once you have put a highlight onto a chart, you can right-click on it
andchoosefromanumberofoptionsviaapop-upmenu.ThefirstisMove,
which, as with the other drawn objects, lets you reshape the object with
theanchorsthataredisplayed.Thesecond,Duplicate,createsacopyofthe
objectnearbytheoriginalwiththeanchorspreselected.Thisisaquickway
ofcreatingmultiplehighlights.Andthethird,ChangeStyle/Color,invokesa
dialogbox(Figure12.5)soyoucanadjusttheappearanceofthehighlight.
FIGURE 12.4 Arectanglehighlight,whichemphasizesthesupportzoneforthis
index.

P1:OTA
c12 JWBT295-Knight May11,2010 11:43 Printer:Yettocome
296 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
FIGURE 12.5 Thisdialogboxletsyouchangethehighlight’scolorandopacity.
Alteringthesettingsfromthisdialogboxwillchangethesettingsonly
for the selected object. This means you can have a variety of styles of
highlight on one chart. The various elements you can alter via this dialog
boxare:
Color:Selectfromanyof15availablehighlightcolors
FillOpacity:Thisnumberrangesfrom0(thereisnocoloratall)to1.0
(it is as dark as it can be, even though you can still see the price
bars).
OutlineWeight:Thisisadropdownoffivedifferentselections,ranging
fromskinnytofat.Itcontrolshowthickthelineisthatconstitutes
theoutlineoftherectangleoroval.
Outline Opacity: Identical to Fill Opacity, except that it controls the
opacityoftheoutlineinsteadofthefilling.Tociteanextremeex-
ample,anOutlineOpacityof0andaFillOpacityof0wouldmean
thatyoucouldn’tseetheobjectatall.
Ingeneral,youwanttobeconservativewithhowmanyobjectsyouput
ontoanychart.Afterall,ifyouclutterupyourchartwithdozensoflines,
highlights,andotheritems,itbecomesadistractionfromtheanalysisyou
havetodo.Thejudicioususeofhighlights,however,canmakeseeingthe
mostgermanepartsofpriceactionmucheasierforyouday-to-day.
ADDING TEXT NOTES
ProphetCharts gives you the ability to put text onto a chart in two
forms—as raw text (such as “Earnings Surprise”) or as an icon (for long
text notes, or in case you just don’t want text all over your chart). Even

P1:OTA
c12 JWBT295-Knight May11,2010 11:43 Printer:Yettocome
MultipleTopsandBottoms 297
FIGURE 12.6 Thetexttool.
though text and a highlight color may seem very different, their purpose
is similar: to call attention to something special happening at a particular
point in time on a chart. In the case of text, you might describe manage-
mentchanges,productintroductions,earningsannouncements,orcertain
actions you took in your own trading with respect to the security being
charted.
Puttingatextnoteonachartinvolvesthesesteps:
1. Clickonthetexttool(Figure12.6).
2. Clickontheplaceonthechartwhereyouwantthetextmessagetogo.
3. Adialogboxwillappear.Typethetextyouwant,andthenclickOK.
The text you entered now appears on the chart with a left-pointing
arrow at the left side of the text. The assumption is that you’ll want to
pointoutsomethingonthepricechart,andthearrowwillassistwiththat
reference.
Instep3ofenteringatextnote,youaregivenatextnotedialogboxto
typeinthenote.Besideshavinganareatoenterthenote,youarealsogiven
aradiobuttonwithtwochoices:TextOnChartandIcon(Figure12.7).The
defaultisTextOnChart.IfyouclickontheIconradiobutton,theninstead
FIGURE 12.7 Thisdialogboxletsyouenterandeditatextnote.

P1:OTA
c12 JWBT295-Knight May11,2010 11:43 Printer:Yettocome
298 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
oftextappearingonthechart,asmalliconwillbethere.Whenyoupoint
themousecursoratthaticon,thetextnotewillappearinasimilarfashion
asatooltip.Youcanputasmanytexticonsonachartasyoulike.Ifyou
intendtomarkupachartwithalotoftextnotes,usingiconsisagoodway
to keep the chart from being overly cluttered (unless you want all of the
textvisibleatonce).
Aswiththeotherdrawnobjects,textcanbealteredifyouright-click
onit.Thepop-upmenu(Figure12.8)providesthesechoices(notethat,at
the bottom, Delete and Delete All Drawings have consistent functionality
acrossallobjects,sothere’snoneedtogointothatpairforeverykindof
objecttype):
Move:Clickingthisletsyoudragthetextitemanywhereyouwanton
the chart. Unlike other objects, it does not have anchors. The en-
tirenote(oricon)cansimplybedraggedbyclickingonitanddrag-
gingthemouse,soyoucanplaceitpreciselywhereyoulike.Once
youaresatisfiedwiththenewlocation,clickanywhereelseonthe
charttofinishwiththeplacement.
EditText:Thisinvokesthesamedialogboxyousawwhenyouentered
thetextnoteinthefirstplace.Youcanchangethetextorchange
fromatextnotetoanicon(orviceversa).
Duplicate:Thiscreatesacopyofthesametextnoteinthesamestyle,
whichyoucanimmediatelymovetothedesiredlocation.
ChangeFont/Color:Thisisdescribedindetailnext.Notethatthisfea-
tureisnotrelevantifyouchoosetoshowthetextnoteasanicon.
Hide Arrow: Removes the left-pointing arrow. If you are not really
pointingoutsomethingonthepricechart,youmightwanttosup-
pressthearrow.Notethatthisfeatureisnotrelevantifyouchoose
toshowthetextnoteasanicon.
FIGURE 12.8 Thispop-upmenuappearswhenyouright-clickonatextobject.

P1:OTA
c12 JWBT295-Knight May11,2010 11:43 Printer:Yettocome
MultipleTopsandBottoms 299
FIGURE 12.9 Youcanaltermanyaspectsofthetextnote’sappearance.
The selection Change Font/Color invokes another dialog box (Fig-
ure12.9)thatprovidesanumberofchoices.TheFontdropdownletsyou
choose from any of the dozens of fonts available on your operating sys-
tem. The Size dropdown lets you select a size ranging from tiny (8 point)
to gigantic (72 point). Clicking on Color lets you choose from any of the
15 available colors. Lastly, the Opacity function lets you alter the opacity
tobeanywherefrom0(invisible)to1(solid).AsyoumodifyFont,Color,
and Opacity, thewords “NoteText Sample” at the topwill change torep-
resentthatfont,color,andopacity.Thissamplewillnotchangebasedon
theSize,however,sinceitwouldbeimpracticaltofitverylargetextinthis
smallspace.
Asafinalremarkontextnotes,makinguseoficonsforlargequantities
oftextinformationisillustratedbyFigure12.10.Noticehowtherightmost
text icon has the text displayed. This is because the mouse is pointing at
thisicon.
HIGHER HIGHS AND HIGHER LOWS
Thesimplestandmostreliableindicatorofastock’sstrengthcanbedeter-
mined by seeing if the price chart is making a consistent series of higher
highs and higher lows. You may want to read and reread that sentence a
dozentimes,becauseit’scruciallyimportantandtiesintosomuchofwhat
technical analysis is all about. The reason this sentence is true can be il-
lustrated with Figure 12.11, a real stock shown over a period of almost a
decade.
Over this period, the stock increased nearly 10-fold in value. It didn’t
getthereovernight,anditdidn’tgetthereinastraightline.First,itwentup

P1:OTA
c12 JWBT295-Knight May11,2010 11:43 Printer:Yettocome
300 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
FIGURE 12.10 Multipletextnotesaredisplayedintheformoficons.
FIGURE 12.11 Alexandria Real Estate stock went up about 900 percent with a
steadyseriesofhigherhighsandhigherlows.

P1:OTA
c12 JWBT295-Knight May11,2010 11:43 Printer:Yettocome
MultipleTopsandBottoms 301
awhile.Thenthemarketdigesteditsgainsandthestockdecreased.Then
thestockregaineditsstrengthandpushedontoanewhigh.Theniteased
back again, not quite as low as before. Then it pushed on to yet another
newlifetimehigh.Theniteasedbackoncemore,again,notquitesolow.
This backing and filling process kept going on for years, and for
the long-term investor, the results were marvelous. The core truth here,
though, is that through thousands of days in both bull and bear markets,
the buying interest of the stock consistently outweighed the selling inter-
est. In other words, the bulls maintained control over the bears, because
evenwhenthestockwenttoalow,itwasahigherlowthanthelowbefore.
Thegraphofthisstockhassmallcirclesdrawnonittobetterillustratethis
seriesofhigherhighsandhigherlows.
AstockwithasimilarpatternisshowninFigure12.12.Thegrowthof
thisstockisevenmoreclear,sincethereisanascendingtrendlineplaced
on the chart to indicate support. As with the prior chart, this one has a
steadyprogressionofhigherhighsandhigherlows.Apersonowningthis
stock,solongasthissituationdoesnotchange, willprobablywanttore-
maininthestock.Iftheyseethenexthighfailtosupersedethepriorone,
orworse,theyseealowthatisbeneaththepriorlow,theymayconclude
thestockhasrunitscourse.
FIGURE 12.12 Avalon Bay Communities held above its ascending trendline in
thecourseofmakinghigherhighsandhigherlows.

P1:OTA
c12 JWBT295-Knight May11,2010 11:43 Printer:Yettocome
302 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
FIGURE 12.13 TaserInternationalwasaphenomenalstockuntilitbrokeitsse-
riesofhigherhighsandhigherlows.Notlongafter,itstartedtosinkbadly.
Let’s take a look at what happens when “higher highs, higher lows”
fails. Figure 12.13 shows the chart for Taser International. From March
2003throughApril2004,itisdifficulttochartthehigherhighsandhigher
lows simply because the stock seemed to do littlebut go straight up. The
rise during this period was about 8,500 percent! Taser was the darling of
thefinancialmedia,andthere’snodoubtsomeoneholdingthisstockwould
havehadnoreasontosellitbasedonanylowerlow.
However, things started going wrong with the stock after April 2004.
The next low it made was indeed a lower low, which broke the series.
The stock gathered its strength again, but the next high it made before
descending once more did not exceed the prior high. (Note the arrow
drawn on Figure 12.13, showing the lower high.) At this point, as the
saying goes, the writing was on the wall. The stock managed to push its
wayhigher,ultimatelyevenachievinganewlifetimehighinJanuary2005.
Thedamagehadbeendone,though,andatthatpoint,thestocklostover
80percentofitsvalue.
The main point of this story is to remain on the watch for a break in
the “higher highs, higher lows” series, because as crude a measure as it
is, it usually marks an important turning point. All of this holds true in

P1:OTA
c12 JWBT295-Knight May11,2010 11:43 Printer:Yettocome
MultipleTopsandBottoms 303
theconverseforstocksinbearishformationsaswell.Ifastockismaking
a series of lower highs and lower lows, it will probably continue moving
downwarduntilthatseriesisbroken.Soifyouareshortastockwhichis
making “lower highs, lower lows,” it is best to hold onto it until a higher
high is made. Even if you have no position in the stock, this change in
trendmightmarkavaluablebuyingopportunityforastockthathasbeen
descendingforawhile.
MULTIPLE TOPS
Partofthereasonfordiscussinghigherhighs,higherlowsistopreparefor
theanalysisofmultipletopsandbottoms.Afterastockhasmovedsteadily
higher for a while, it sometimes creates a series of similar highs, indicat-
ing a pause in that stock’s upward momentum. This is a resistance level.
There are really just two things a stock can do in a situation like this: fi-
nallypushitswaypastresistance,movingontoanewhigh,orsuccumbto
theresistanceandfailtoovercomeit,oftenfallinghardintheprocess.
Justasthecessationofhigherhighsandhigherlowscanmarkaturn-
ingpointinastock’sgeneraldirection,theestablishmentofaseriesofsim-
ilarhighs(thatis,amultipletop)canindicatetheendsofastock’sriseand,
perhaps,aturningpoint.LetusturnourattentiontoFigure12.14,whichis
thestockforChesapeakeEnergy.Asyoucansee,generallyspeaking,the
stockwasafantasticperformer,providingitsshareholderswithterrificre-
turnsformanyyears.
Taking a closer look at the stock’s behavior in Figure 12.15, we can
seethatafterthestockhityetanotherall-timehighofabout$33,iteased
back,moveduptoabout$33again,easedbackoncemore,pushedhigher
to$33,andeasedbackyetagain.Itisasifthestockhadhitawallandcould
notovercomethisresistancelevel.Inreal-worldterms,whatwasgoingon
wasthatbuyersandsellershadfoundapointofequilibriumatabout$33.
Atthatlevel,therewasinsufficientbuyinginteresttopropelthestockany
higher,anditkeptfallingback.
Therewasaclearsignalatthispointthatperhapsthedaysofasteadily
ascending stock were a thing of the past. Unless the stock could gather
the resolve to push past these prices, the sellers would maintain the up-
perhand.Indeed,thesellersstartedtooverwhelmthebuyers,andasFig-
ure12.16plainlyshows,thismultipletopprecededanabsolutelydevastat-
inglossinvalueinwhichtheentiretyofthegainsshareholdershadenjoyed
werelaidwaste.
The best way to deepen our understanding of multiple tops is
through the examination of more examples, so let’s proceed with those.
Figure 12.17 shows high-flier Alexion as it made its way from $5 to $120.

P1:OTA
c12 JWBT295-Knight May11,2010 11:43 Printer:Yettocome
304 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
FIGURE 12.14 Thisstockmadeaconsistentseriesofhigherhighsformostof
thistimeperiod.
FIGURE 12.15 Hereweseeinstanceafterinstanceofthestockhittingthe$33
levelandfallingbackduetosellingpressure.

P1:OTA
c12 JWBT295-Knight May11,2010 11:43 Printer:Yettocome
MultipleTopsandBottoms 305
FIGURE 12.16 The triple topcircled here gavea clear warningsignalthat pre-
cededacompletewipeoutofthestock’sprice.
FIGURE 12.17 Alexionmakestwoimpressiverunsatthe$120pricepoint,show-
ingapossibledoubletopformation.

P1:OTA
c12 JWBT295-Knight May11,2010 11:43 Printer:Yettocome
306 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
The first highlighted oval indicates the initial peak in the stock price, and
thenitlostabout75percentofitsvalue.Itsubsequentlyregaineditsfoot-
ingandmanagedtoworkitswaybacktoitsformerpeak,eliminatingthe
entire75percentloss.
Thinkofthemind-setoftheholdersofthisstockataboutthistime.Ev-
eryonewhohasboughtthisstockisinawinningposition—someofthem
exceptionallyso.Longer-termholdershaveheldonthroughabreathtaking
collapse in stock price, only to see the stock rally 300 percent to match
itspriorhigh.Everyonelongthestockwantsthesamething—forittogo
higher—butownersareunderstandablynervous.
Thisisthekindoftenuoussituationinwhichastockcanmakeamulti-
pletop.Iteitherisgoingtohavesuchanexceptionallycommittedgroupof
buyersthatanewhighpriceisreached,thusincitingevenmoreinterest,or
peopleanxioustotakeprofitsoverwhelmthebuyersandthepricesimply
matchesthepriorhigh.
As you can see in Figure 12.18, the latter is undoubtedly what took
placewithAlexion.Duringthesecondtop,thepricetriedtopushitsway
into a new high, day after day. After over a week of attempts, the stock
finally started sinking due to selling pressure, and it really never looked
FIGURE 12.18 Afterthestockdouble-topped,ALXNlostnearly92percentofits
peakvalueoverthenextcoupleofyears.

P1:OTA
c12 JWBT295-Knight May11,2010 11:43 Printer:Yettocome
MultipleTopsandBottoms 307
back.Bythetimethesellingwasdone,thestockhadlostnearly92percent
ofitspeakvalue.
Thereasonfortheterm“multipletop”isthattherecanbetwo,three,
four, or even more tops. Whether the chart you are examining is forming
amultipletoporissimplyhittingafirmresistancelevelisamatterofdis-
cernment. After all, if a stock hits the same price 50 times in a row, it is
notamultipletop;thestockhassimplyfoundaseriousresistancelevelat
whichbuyersandsellersareinastateofequalstrength.
One core characteristic of a multiple top is that there is a reasonable
amount of time space between the tops. Often, the longer the space be-
tweenthetops,thebetter,becauseitillustratesthatevenunderconstantly
changing market conditions, thestock stillpoops out at acertainlevel. A
seriesofequalhighpricesoverthecourseofaweekisnotamultipletop.
Ahighprice,followedbyaprotracteddip,followedbyaroughlyequalhigh
pricefourweekslaterwouldbeamuchbettercandidateforamultipletop
pattern.
Figure12.19,forinstance,providesusagoodexampleofatripletop.
Thisisaverylong-termchart,showing(onasplit-adjustedbasis)Hunting-
tonBancshares(HBAN)ascendingfromafewpenniesuptoover$25.
FIGURE 12.19 Symbol HBAN started to stall at about $25, forming a series of
multipletops.

P1:OTA
c12 JWBT295-Knight May11,2010 11:43 Printer:Yettocome
308 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
FIGURE 12.20 Multipletopscanhappenmanymonthsapartfromoneanother,
aslongasaconsistenthighpriceisbeinghit.
Thethreetops(nottobeconfusedwiththemusicalgroup)tookplace
overan18-monthperiod.Eventhoughthestockpricefluctuatedbetween
$15 and $25—a huge range—the stock kept bumping up against the $25
pricepointandretreating.AsyoucanseeinFigure12.20,bythethirdin-
stance the holders of the stock had enough frustration and increased the
sellingpressure.
Oncethetripletopwasinplace,thepricesuccumbedandfellfrom$25
tounder$10inalittleoverayear(Figure12.21).Ownersofthisstockwho
werearmedwiththisknowledgewouldhavehadampleopportunitytoget
outofthestocknearitshigh.
Theskillinbeingabletopickoutamultipletopwhileitishappening
istobeabletoclearlyspotthehighpricesamongthenoiseoftheregular
ups and downs of trading activity. Take Tower Automotive, for instance
(Figure 12.22). During 1998 and 1999, the stock fluctuated between about
$16 and $28. If you look for the highest highs during this period, two of
them stand out—one in the second quarter of 1998 and the second in the
middleof1999.
Onewaytovisuallythinkofthisistoimagineholdingarulerhorizontal
at the top of the chart and slowing bringing it down the graph. Once you

P1:OTA
c12 JWBT295-Knight May11,2010 11:43 Printer:Yettocome
MultipleTopsandBottoms 309
FIGURE 12.21 HBANsuffereda60percentpricedeclineoncethetripletopwas
inplace.
FIGURE 12.22 TowerAutomotivehadanimpressivetrackrecord,scoringahigh
pricein1998andmatchingthathighthenextyear.

P1:OTA
c12 JWBT295-Knight May11,2010 11:43 Printer:Yettocome
310 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
FIGURE 12.23 Theeffectsofthismultipletopwereclearformorethansixyears
afterthepatterncompleted.
hitsometouchpointswiththeruler,iftheyarespreadoutfromeachother
by at least a few weeks and represent a fairly consistent new high price
beinghit,thereisprobablyamultipletopinformation.(Withthepossibility
thatthepricecouldpushaheadtoanevenhigherprice,thusnegatingthe
multipletop.)
One interesting result of this double top was what a major turning
point it was for this stock. After the double top was in place, the stock
spent the next six years unraveling. By 2006, this security had disinte-
gratedintothelandofpennystocks(Figure12.23).Onceagain,achartist
armed with some basic knowledge could have done very well with this
insight.
Onefinalexampleofamultipletopisimpressiveduetothequantityof
topsithadinplace:fiveofthem,laiddownoveraperiodof20months.Dov
Pharmaceuticals (symbol DOVP, shown in Figure 12.24) had risen from
about$3toabout$20inthespanofayear.Overthenexttwoyears,how-
ever,thestockoscillatedwildly.Thischartwasnotacaseofhigherhighs
and higher lows. Instead, it was showing higher lows (which is good for
bulls) and identical highs (which suggests a multiple top). A bull would
wanttoseehigherhighsinstead.

P1:OTA
c12 JWBT295-Knight May11,2010 11:43 Printer:Yettocome
MultipleTopsandBottoms 311
FIGURE 12.24 Itisclearfromthisgraphthat$20representedextremelystrong
resistanceforthisstock.
On five different instances, DOVP reached a price of about $20 and
thensoftened.Notethatthepricedoesnothavetobeabsolutelyidentical
to create a multiple top. As long as the high prices are within a reason-
able range—about 5 percent—they are close enough to qualify. As illus-
trated with Figure 12.25, after this quintuple multiple top was completed,
the effect on the stock was horrific, destroying about 90 percent of the
equity’svalue.
For bulls, multipletops arean invaluable warning sign toget out and
preserveprofits.Forbears,amultipletopcanbeaprofitablesignaltoes-
tablish a short position in a stock and enjoy the ride down. Now we will
turnourattentiontotheexactoppositepattern,themultiplebottom.
MULTIPLE BOTTOMS
Justabouteverythingyouhavelearnedaboutmultipletopsholdstruefor
multiple bottoms, except that it is turned on its head. Just as the estab-
lishmentofamultipletopsuggestsresistance,theestablishmentofamul-
tiple bottom suggests support. Just as the exercise of sliding a (mental)

P1:OTA
c12 JWBT295-Knight May11,2010 11:43 Printer:Yettocome
312 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
FIGURE 12.25 AquintupletopestablishedbystocksymbolDOVPprecededan
almostcompletedestructionofthestock’svalue.
ruler from the top of a chart down until it hits similar highs can spot a
multiple top in the making, so, too, can sliding the same mental ruler up
from the bottom of a chart page. And just as the most valuable multiple
tops are found after a prior prolonged rise in the stock’s price, the most
lucrative multiple bottoms can be found after an extended decline in a
stock’sprice.
A fine example of this is Figure 12.26, which shows the price activity
forCharterCommunications(symbolCHTR).Overa15-monthperiod,the
stock’spricehadfallenfrom$25toabout70cents.Thestockthennearly
tripledinprice,onlytosinkbackdownagain.Fivemonthsaftertheinitial
lowwasestablished,thestockhitthispriceonceagainbeforeresumingits
climb. Itdid not hit those lows again, and a double bottom was plainly in
place,followedbyaseven-foldincreaseinprice.
Thepsychologicalvalueofamultiplebottomisthatithelpsconvince
the trading public that the selling is over. If a stock has been falling hard
foralongtime,itiscomfortingforthepublictowitnessthatastockseems
tobehammeringoutabottomforitselfandthatitrefusestogoanylower
thanacertainpricepoint.Themoretimesthislowpricepointishitwithout
breaking,themoreconfidenttraderscanbethatthispricelevelisastrong

P1:OTA
c12 JWBT295-Knight May11,2010 11:43 Printer:Yettocome
MultipleTopsandBottoms 313
FIGURE 12.26 Thisseven-foldriseinCHTRwasprecededbyanimportantdou-
blebottompricepattern.
support zone. Any stock that has been suffering a decline needs to show
thislineinthesandsothatpeoplearen’tconvincedthesecurityissimply
goingto$0.
Adifferentcompany(Charles&Colvard)withanearlyidenticalticker
symbol (CTHR) illustrates this point vividly. The stock certainly had suf-
feredaharrowingloss,fallingfrom$15toabout50cents.Butonfivedif-
ferent occasions, highlighted in Figure 12.27, the stock refused to go be-
neath a certain level. As is often the case, the stock was swinging wildly
upanddownduringthistimeperiod,asbuyersandsellersstruggledwith
establishing leadership. Keep in mind also that, after such a serious de-
cline, there would be a tremendous amount of suspicion with respect to
thestock’sabilitytoholdontoanypricegains.
Thetimethestockspentin2001pushingitswaybetween50centsand
$1.50 was time well spent, as evidenced in Figure 12.28. The very strong
multiplebottom,highlightedwithanovalinthischart,gavebuyersthecon-
fidence tobegin reenteringthestockinforce, andthateventually pushed
the stock toward a huge multi-thousand percentage point gain from 2002
through 2005. Incidentally, you can also see another nice bottoming pat-
ternfrom2002through2004asthestockfirmedupnewsupportbetween

P1:OTA
c12 JWBT295-Knight May11,2010 11:43 Printer:Yettocome
314 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
FIGURE 12.27 Hereweseefiveseparateinstancesofthestockhittingalowprice
point,firminguptheimportanceofthissupportleveleachtime.
FIGURE 12.28 The support level in 2001 was hit many times before the stock
finallystartedheadingupwardtoagiganticpercentagegain.

P1:OTA
c12 JWBT295-Knight May11,2010 11:43 Printer:Yettocome
MultipleTopsandBottoms 315
FIGURE 12.29 Thisisjustabouttheidealdoublebottom:Exactlythesamelow
pricewasestablished,andahealthyamountoftime—ninemonths—separatesthe
twolowprices.
$3and$5.Theimportantthingtonoteaboutthisgraphishowcrucialthe
multiplebottomin2001wastothisstock’slong-termprospects.
If multiple bottoms take place over a long time frame, that is often a
strong indication that the bottom is so widely respected as to be almost
impenetrable. Let’s turn our attention to symbol AEM, captured in Fig-
ure12.29.Thestockhitalowof$2.50inlate1975andtheautumnof1976.
Therewasaboutanine-monthgapbetweenthesetwoevents.
If,withallthegyrationsofthestockmarket,astockcanholdfirmata
givenlevelafterhavingsufferedthroughalotofsellingpressure,prospects
are good for this stock. The other benefit is that you have a very clean
stop-loss point: should the stock break beneath the support zone (in this
instance,$2.50),youwouldimmediatelyexitthepositionandmoveon.No
suchstop-orderwouldhavebeenexecutedforalongpositioninthisstock,
however, which enjoyed many strong years after this double bottom was
complete.
There are even a few rare instances where huge amounts of
time—decades,even—canserveasaffirmationsofastrongsupportlevel.
American Airlines, known as AMR Corporation (symbol AMR) was a

P1:OTA
c12 JWBT295-Knight May11,2010 11:43 Printer:Yettocome
316 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
FIGURE 12.30 Eventhoughnearly20yearsseparatedthesetwobottoms,savvy
buyersin2003couldhaveboughtAMRsharesatpricesnotseensincethedepths
ofthebearmarketin1974.
disastrously bad stockfollowingtheterroristattacksintheUnitedStates
inSeptember2001.Byearly2003,thestockhadlostalmostitsentirevalue,
which is particularly remarkable given AMR’s enormous presence in the
transportationmarket.
A trader armed with a long-term chart, like the one shown in Fig-
ure12.30,wouldhavenoticedsomethingremarkableasthestockplunged
from$45to$2:alowpricehadbeensetinlate1974,afterwhichthestock
hadenjoyedahugeresurgence.Thisisnottosaythatthischartrepresents
a double bottom (unless the scale one is using to judge the chart is mea-
sured in centuries!). But, in a similar vein, this chart would be helpful to
a person trying to determine how low the stock could possibly go in the
worstconditionsthestockhadexperiencedbefore(inthiscase,thehuge
bearmarketin1973and1974).
Thereisnodoubtthestockcouldhavesnappedbeneathitspriorlife-
timelowandgoneto$0.Butinthiscase,apurchaseofAMRatitspriorlow
would have been extremely profitable, as the stock turned on the prover-
bial dime and blasted higher. It only took one insight—the recognition of
thelifetimelowestablishedtwodecadesprior—torecognizethistrade.

P1:OTA
c12 JWBT295-Knight May11,2010 11:43 Printer:Yettocome
MultipleTopsandBottoms 317
SUMMARY
Thischapterhasintroducedustohighlightingcharts(bothwithovalsand
rectangles),addingtextnotes,andidentifyingthehigherhighs,higherlows
pattern. We have also learned about multiple tops and multiple bottoms,
each of which can help us find important turning points in an equity’s di-
rection.Wecannowextendourknowledgeofpatternsbyexaminingone
ofthemostusefulreversalpatterns,theHeadandShoulders.

P1:OTA
c13 JWBT295-Knight May25,2010 10:53 Printer:Yettocome
C H A P T E R 13
Head and
Shoulders
S
o far in this book we have learned about a wide variety of analy-
sismethodsforfinancialcharts.Saucers,multipletopsandbottoms,
trendlines, and channels are just a few of the methods we have ex-
amined.Afterseeingsomanychartswithsuccessfuloutcomesofapplying
thesetechniques,itcanbetemptingtoplaceatradeonanychartthatre-
sembles one of the patterns shown. One might start to think that these
patternsyieldsomekindofmysticalpowerthatcanbeexploitedbythose
whounderstandthem.
Thisisnotthecase.Thereisnosorceryinvolvedwithtechnicalanaly-
sis.Anytrade,afterall,isaguess.Itishopefullyaneducated,well-informed
guesswithappropriatesafetymeasures(likestoporders)inplacetomin-
imize your risk. But remember that the word “speculate” is derived from
the Latin verb speculare, which means “to observe.” It does not mean “to
gamble.”Theobjectofgoodspeculationistoobservewelltheinformation
infrontofyou(inourcase,well-drawncharts)andmakeadecisionbased
onsoundprinciples.
The patterns in this book don’t always work. There are many times
when there seems to be a perfect setup, and the charts go sour on you.
That’s okay. As long as you have a stop price in place that shields you
from unreasonable losses, you can preserve the majority of your capital
andmoveon.Soifyoulose5percentonfourdifferenttradesandmake50
percentonanothertrade,allofwhichwerebasedonthesamepattern,you
willstillcomeoutwayahead,becauseyoucontainedyourlossesbasedon
goodanalytics.
318

P1:OTA
c13 JWBT295-Knight May25,2010 10:53 Printer:Yettocome
HeadandShoulders 319
Withthisinmind,wecannowturnourfullattentiontooneofthemost
powerfulandeasy-to-recognizereversalpatterns,theHeadandShoulders
(anditstwin,theInverseHeadandShoulders).
THE HEAD AND SHOULDERS PATTERN
The Head and Shoulders pattern (henceforth referred to as H&S) has a
funnynamebutapowerfulpurpose:toindicatethepossiblereversalofthe
securityyouarecharting.Asthenamesuggests,theH&Spatternlookslike
aheadbetweentwoshoulders.Itconsistsoftheseelements:
LeftShoulder:Anascentinprice(ideallyfollowingalong,majorascent
in the stock’s value), a leveling, and then a weakening back to a
certainsupportlevelknownastheneckline.
Head: A further ascent in price, surpassing the high set by the left
shoulder, once again leveling off and descending back to the
neckline.
Right Shoulder: A final ascent in price, ideally not going as high as
the left shoulder (and certainly not going as high as the head), a
leveling off, and a descent back to the neckline, which it breaks
beneathonstrongvolume.
Figure 13.1 shows an example of a very good H&S pattern exhibited
bythestockTechnicalOlympia(symbolTOA).Lineshavebeendrawnon
top of the chart to clearly show the shoulders, the head, and the neck-
line. The circled part indicates where the price broke beneath the neck-
line, completing the pattern and sending the price sharply downward, as
expected.
The H&S is a reversal pattern. It indicates that the stock is going to
changedirection.Assuch,itismostpowerfulwhenastockhashadalong,
significant move higher in price. The ideal opportunity to exploit an H&S
pattern is when there is a lot of air beneath the pattern—that is, a long
ascentinpricewithverylittleresistanceonthewaydown.
TakealookatFigure13.2foragoodexampleofthis.Hereisastock,
HelenofTroyLtd.,whichmovedfrom$4to$26inalittleoverthreeyears.
The rectangle indicates a massive H&S pattern. This one is particularly
goodbecausethereisanextremelycleanneckline(thebottomlineofthe
rectangle)andtherightshoulderislowerthantheleftshoulder,indicating
adiminishmentinbuyingstrength.Oncethepricebrokebeneaththeneck-
line,noticehowswiftlythepricedescended.Ittookonlyaboutayearfor
thestocktogetto$4again,withveryfewpausesalongtheway.

P1:OTA
c13 JWBT295-Knight May25,2010 10:53 Printer:Yettocome
320 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
FIGURE 13.1 Thisisanear-perfectHeadandShoulderspattern:well-definedleft
shoulder,head,andrightshoulder,followedbyabreakbeneaththeneckline,which
isindicatedherebyacircle.
Thinkoncemoreaboutthepsychologybehindthepattern.Wereturn
to the basic notion that bulls want to see a steady progression of higher
highsandhigherlows.Duringtheformationoftheleftshoulder,assuming
thestockhasbeenenjoyingaconsistentrun-upinprice,thebullsarestill
satisfied that all is well. The peak of the left shoulder marks yet another
highpriceinthestock.
As the head begins to form, the bulls remain satisfied, because once
again they are seeing a higher high in the stock. But something is going
wrong,becauseasthepriceeasesbackagain,itreturnstothesamelevel
thattheleftshoulderwasatbefore(inotherwords,theneckline).Soweno
longerhaveaseriesofhigherhighsandhigherlows.Thelowsarematching
oneanother.Butatleast,fromthebullishpointofview,thereisstillstrong
supportatagivenpricelevel(again,theneckline).
When the right shoulder begins to form, the bulls want to see a new
highmade,exceedingthepricejustmadebytheheadprice.(Keepinmind
the vast majority of individuals watching the stock aren’t even looking at
a chart, let alone thinking in terms of heads and shoulders.) But not only
doesthepricenotexceedthatofthehead,itdoesn’tevenmatchtheprice

P1:OTA
c13 JWBT295-Knight May25,2010 10:53 Printer:Yettocome
HeadandShoulders 321
FIGURE 13.2 TheHeadandShoulderspatterntypicallyprecedesamajordecline
inprice.
madebytheleftshoulder.Sothestockisactuallyseenasweakeningnow,
and the buying volume dries up as the price comes torest, once again, at
theneckline.
At this point, the market has a decision to make. It can continue to
support the price at the equilibrium level it has found. Or the sellers can
overcome the buyers, and the neckline will be broken. In the latter case,
theH&Spatterniscomplete,andthestockpriceisprobablyintrouble(for
thebulls,atleast).
There is one more element to this story, however, and that is the re-
tracement.Justasyousawretracementswithsaucer-likepatterns,theH&S
patternsometimessportsaretracementaswell.Inthiscase,afterabrief,
quick drop in price, bargain hunters came out and temporarily provided
support for the stock. If the H&S pattern holds, the price will make its
way back up to the equilibrium point (the neckline), but no further. This
provides a golden opportunity in the form of a second chance for those
wanting to sell the stock short—because it is entirely likely once the re-
tracementiscomplete,thepricewillbeginfallingagain,anditwillfallfar
pastthepointwhereitoriginallypaused.

P1:OTA
c13 JWBT295-Knight May25,2010 10:53 Printer:Yettocome
322 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
A CLOSE-UP VIEW OF BRCM’s H&S
PATTERN
One of the most remarkable examples of the H&S pattern in action in
the U.S. stock market in recent years was Broadcom (BRCM) from 1998
through2002.Lookingathowthisstockformedandbrokedownwiththe
H&S as its reversal formation will yield insight in how to profit from this
pattern.
BeginningwithFigure13.3,wecanseehowBroadcom,overaperiodof
severalyears,hadaremarkablerun-upinprice,movingfromasingle-digit
stocktoonepricedover$180.ThiswasduringtheInternetboomofthelate
1990s,andBroadcom,asamajorforceinnetwork-relatedsemiconductors,
wasoneofthehotteststocksintheUnitedStates.WhentheNASDAQstock
marketbeganbreakingdownafterMarch2000,Broadcomsufferedbadly,
falling from about $160 to about $80, a loss of 50 percent. But stocks re-
latedtonetworkingregainedtheircomposure,andbythesummerof2000
Broadcomwasreachingnewlifetimehighs.
FIGURE 13.3 The most lucrative H&S pattern is preceded by a long run-up in
price. This chart shows BRCM starting to break after it has moved up hundreds of
percentalready.

P1:OTA
c13 JWBT295-Knight May25,2010 10:53 Printer:Yettocome
HeadandShoulders 323
FIGURE 13.4 ThenecklineisthekeytotheH&S,butthereareoccasionswhen
fakeoutscanoccur.HereBRCMappearstobreakdown,onlytomovebackaboveits
neckline.Alittlemorethanaweeklater,thetruebreakdownbegins.
In retrospect, we can see something fascinating happening between
JulyandOctoberof2000—theformationofaratherwell-definedH&Spat-
tern. This one is a bit unusual in the fact that it has two right shoulders.
Thisisnotunheardof,butitsuggestsahesitationonthepartofthemarket
topushthestockbeneathitsneckline.
Looking closer at this period where the H&S formed, you can see a
clearnecklineatabout$130.Somethingratherextraordinaryhappenedon
October26,2000:Thestockpushedbelowthenecklineonstrongvolume,
and then returned above the neckline again! You can imagine how frus-
trating this was to the bears on this stock, since the widely anticipated
breakdownofBRCMhadfinallystartedtakingplace,onlytobecancelled
outtheverysameday.
Eightsessionslater,thestockgappeddownbeneaththeneckline,but
thistimetherewasnoturningback(Figure13.4).Evenmoreimportant,the
breakdowninthestockwasaccompaniedbyagiganticriseinthevolume
as owners of the stock rushed for the exit doors. Even though there had
beenafalsebreakdownthathadfakedoutmanyinvestors,itseemedthis
secondbreakdownwasauthentic.

P1:OTA
c13 JWBT295-Knight May25,2010 10:53 Printer:Yettocome
324 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
FIGURE 13.5 AfterBRCMsnappeditsneckline,thevolumesurgeddramatically
formanymonthsafterward.
What happened following this breakdown was extraordinary. From
November7,2000,throughApril4,2001,Broadcomlostabout90percentof
itsvalue,allinaspanofaboutfivemonths.Anditdidsoonextremelyhigh
volume(Figure13.5).TheH&Spattern,inspiteofitsfalsestart,provided
anastonishinglyprescientpredictionofthisstock’sdirection.
AfterthestockreacheditsbottomonApril4,2001,itspentaboutthe
next 14 months bouncing in a huge trading range between $12 and $36
(Figure 13.6). Clearly the investing public had been caught in a horrible
tailspinandwastryingtoestablishanappropriatevalueforthestock.Af-
ter all this churning, the stock starting losing support again, and it ulti-
matelybottomedatalittleover$6(justover3percentofitspeakprice)in
October2002.
THE IMPORTANCE OF THE NECKLINE
There is no more important feature to the H&S pattern than the neck-
line, because the neckline defines whether the pattern is complete and,

P1:OTA
c13 JWBT295-Knight May25,2010 10:53 Printer:Yettocome
HeadandShoulders 325
FIGURE 13.6 Over96percentofBRCM’speakvaluewaslostduringitsfall,and
thisfallcameinthreelargephases:theinitialdescent,aplateauperiod,andthena
finalcollapse.
therefore, has any meaning. As with other lines in technical analysis, the
neckline represents a line in the sand dividing bulls and bears. Along the
lineitselfisasortofequilibriumbetweenbuyersandsellers.Tradingabove
thelinerepresentsstrengthandhope.Tradingbeneaththelinerepresents
weaknessandfear.
With an ideal H&S pattern, the neckline has five unique touch points.
The first is on the left side of the left shoulder; the second is at the right
sideoftheleftshoulder(whichisalsotheleftsideofthehead);thethird
is at the right side of the head; the fourth is at the right side of the right
shoulder, at which point the price breaks beneath the neckline; and the
fifth point (which is optional, in a sense) is when the price retraces back
uptothenecklinebeforefallinghardonceagain.
Oncethepricehasbrokenbeneaththeneckline,theH&Spatternhas
validity only if the price remains below the neckline. (When the price re-
traces, you may want toallow for afew pennies of “violation” before dis-
missing the pattern altogether.) Just because the price goes above the
neckline doesn’t absolutely mean the stock will not fall, but it does indi-
cate strength that isnormallynot part of agood, strongH&S breakdown.

P1:OTA
c13 JWBT295-Knight May25,2010 10:53 Printer:Yettocome
326 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
FIGURE 13.7 Sometimesthenecklineisviolatedtotheupsideafterithasbeen
broken.Intheseinstances,thepatternshouldbeviewedwithmoreskepticism.
Figure 13.7 shows an instance where the price broke below the neckline,
went well above it again, then once more fell beneath it. A pattern with
noise such as this should be viewed with more skepticism than a pattern
absentsuchnoise.
Whatyouinsteadwanttoseeismorealongthelinesofthechartshown
inFigure13.8,whichisactuallythesamestockastheoneinFigure13.7but
atadifferentpointintime.Thenecklinedrawnonthischartclearlyshows
a left shoulder, a head, a right shoulder (which has a lower high than the
left shoulder, always a good sign), and then a break below the neckline.
Whenthepricegainsstrengthandretracesbacktotheneckline,ittouches
thenecklinevirtuallytotheexactpennyandthenswiftlyfallsaway.This
isasuperbexampleoftheH&Spatternatitsbest.
The aftermath of the H&S that was shown in Figure 13.7 is actually
prettyimpressive,inspiteofthenecklineviolationthattookplace.AsFig-
ure13.9illustrates,thedescentinpricewasquiterapidandrelativelyun-
interrupted.Averyclearseriesoflowerlowsandlowerhighswaslaidout
aftertheH&Swascomplete.
AnevenmoreextremeexampleoftheH&S’sabilitytowithstandneck-
lineviolationsinshownwithFigure13.10.Ontheleftsideofthischartyou

P1:OTA
c13 JWBT295-Knight May25,2010 10:53 Printer:Yettocome
HeadandShoulders 327
FIGURE 13.8 HereisadifferentH&Spatternonthesamestock,whichshowsa
cleanerpattern.
FIGURE 13.9 In spite of the imperfect behavior around the neckline, the H&S
patternperformswellinthisinstance.

P1:OTA
c13 JWBT295-Knight May25,2010 10:53 Printer:Yettocome
328 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
FIGURE 13.10 Thepriceofthisstockmovedabovethenecklinebutultimately
fellfarbelowtheoriginalpricetarget.
can see the H&S, the initial breakdown, the retracement, and the subse-
quent fall in price. In itself, this would have been quite a nice trade. The
stockstrengthenedquiteabitoverthesubsequentmonths,anditspenta
coupleofmonthsabovethenecklineprice(bythistime,theH&Spattern
was no longer meaningful for a trade). Over the long haul, the stock fell
farmoreinpricethanitdidaftertheinitialH&Scompletion,showingthat
thereversalinpricetookawhiletoplayoutandwasnotwithoutitscom-
plications (namely, the price moving above the neckline for a protracted
period).
Aswithmanytechnicalpatterns,theH&Sdemandsacertainamountof
judgmentonyourpartsinceperfectpatternsarerare.Theyarealsomuch
easier to detect in retrospect. Authentidate Holding Corporation, whose
stock is shown in Figure 13.11, is an outstanding example of an H&S. It
hasalltherequiredelements:ahugerun-upinpricefrom$2to$18.75,the
formation of an H&S with a right shoulder lower than the left, a break, a
retracement,andthenafinalplungeallthewaybackdownto$2.
Some followers of this pattern believe you can set a price target for
just how far the stock is going to fall. The calculation involves taking the
differencebetweenthepeakofthestockandthevalueofthestockatthe

P1:OTA
c13 JWBT295-Knight May25,2010 10:53 Printer:Yettocome
HeadandShoulders 329
FIGURE 13.11 This pattern shows the right shoulder much lower than the left
shoulder,whichlendscredencetothisH&Spattern.
necklineandthensubtractingthatvaluefromthevalueattheneckline.For
example,ifastockpeakedat$40andhadanecklineat$30,thepricetarget
wouldbe$20(sincethedifferencebetween$40and$30is$10which,when
subtractedfrom$30,yieldstheresultof$20).
Thiscalculationdoesnotseemreliable.ThechartinFigure13.11,for
instance,wouldyieldanonsensicalnegativevalue.Abetterapproachisto
judge each chart independently, looking for areas of meaningful support
wherethestockpricemightslowitsdescent.
USING RETRACEMENTS
The act of retracement in the world of the Head and Shoulders pattern
sometimes seems like an act of generosity on the part of the stock mar-
ket.Whenapriceretracesbackuptothenecklineafterbreakingbelowit,
two benefits are provided. First, it affirms the importance and validity of
the neckline (assuming that, once the retracement is complete, the price
starts to fall again). And second, for those traders who prefer less risk, it

P1:OTA
c13 JWBT295-Knight May25,2010 10:53 Printer:Yettocome
330 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
FIGURE 13.12 This is a perfect retracement, with the price moving back and
touchingthenecklineafterthebreak.
providesawelcomesecondchancetogetintoapositionwithaveryclear
stopprice—namely,thevalueofthestockattheneckline.
Take AK Steel Holding, illustrated in Figure 13.12. This stock had a
neckline at $19, and it cleanly broke that neckline, falling to about $13.
Forthosepeoplewhohadbeenbearishonthisstock,itmightseemthatit
wastoolate,sincesellingastockshortat$13withastoppriceabove$19
represents an outsized risk. Getting stopped out above $19 on a position
entered at $13 would represent a loss of nearly 50 percent, which most
peoplewouldfindunacceptable.
However,thepricestrengthensandmakesitswaybacktojustpennies
beneath the $19 level. Now, instead of entering a short position at $13, a
tradercouldenteritatapricejustunderneaththenecklineandsetastop
price just above the neckline. The risk in this case is pennies instead of
dollars.
Such a trade would have worked out brilliantly, as shown in Fig-
ure 13.13. Once the neckline was retraced, the price fell hard, eventually
descendingtoapriceofabout$2,anearly90percentdropfromtheneck-
lineprice.

P1:OTA
c13 JWBT295-Knight May25,2010 10:53 Printer:Yettocome
HeadandShoulders 331
FIGURE 13.13 Shortingthisstockattheretracementpointwouldhaveprovided
theperfectlow-risk/high-rewardopportunity.
Theproblem,ofcourse,isthatnotallretracementsarethissmooth.In
fact,hardlyanyofthemare.Perhapstheretracementwillpushjustabove
thenecklineforafewmoments,forcingtheexecutionofthestop-lossor-
der. Perhaps the retracement will only be partial, not getting close to the
necklineandindoingsosnatchingawayasecondchancetoentertheposi-
tionasthepriceresumesitsfall.Ormaybetheretracementwon’thappen
atall,meaningtheonlyindividualsprofitingfromthestock’sfallarethose
bold enough to have entered their positions immediately upon the neck-
line’sbreak.
Figure 13.14, the chart of Advanced Micro Devices, shows how a
stock’spricecanbobblearounditsneckline,frustratingbullsandbearssi-
multaneously.Thiskindofpriceactionindicatesmajoruncertaintyamong
thosetakingpositionsinthestockastheyfightfordirection.Thestockfell
below the neckline, went well above it, fell once more, went even higher
aboveitagain,andthenfellathirdtime.Thiskindofcyclewillshakeout
theweakhandstradingthestock,sincethereisnocleardirection.
Once the price fell under the neckline a third time, the bears main-
tained control. As the arrow in Figure 13.15 shows, the third break under
thenecklineledtoasignificantdeclineinprice,whichwasthenfollowed

P1:OTA
c13 JWBT295-Knight May25,2010 10:53 Printer:Yettocome
332 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
FIGURE 13.14 Thisbreakbeneaththenecklineisveryrough,sinceittookthree
separateattemptsbeforeatruebreakwasinplace.
FIGURE 13.15 Afterthethirdbreakbeneaththeneckline,thestockbegantofall
badly.

P1:OTA
c13 JWBT295-Knight May25,2010 10:53 Printer:Yettocome
HeadandShoulders 333
FIGURE 13.16 Thisretracementtookmanymonthstocomplete,butitprovided
asecondchanceforthosewhohadmissedtheshortthefirsttime.
byaretracementthattookmanymonthstocomplete.Thosefollowingthis
stockwhokepttheoriginalnecklineontheirchartwouldhaverecognized
that, finally, a clean retracement was being offered. The AMD stock was
offeringasecondchancetothosewhowantedtotakeabearishposition,
and those who did profited well from it, since the stock subsequently fell
muchharder.
Breaks beneath necklines can be imperfect, and retracements are all
a little different. Experience as a chartist and a trader will give you the
confidence required tomake asober judgment ofthelikelydirection ofa
stockbasedonitsbehaviortowardtheneckline.Afterall,ifapriceascends
abovethenecklineandjustkeepsgoinghigher,itshouldnottakeyoulong
todecidethattheH&Spatternnolongerhasanymeaningforthatstockat
thattime,andyoushoulddeletethenecklinealtogether.
Waiting for a retracement can take patience, but the reward for this
patience is a significant reduction in risk. The chart in Figure 13.16 took
manymonthstoretracefullytoitsneckline.Indeed,itcouldbearguedon
thischartthatthereweretwonecklinesinplace,oneofwhichwasretraced
muchearlier.Thearrowonthechartindicatesthepeakoftheretracement,
representingthelowest-riskentrypointforthissecurity.

P1:OTA
c13 JWBT295-Knight May25,2010 10:53 Printer:Yettocome
334 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
FIGURE 13.17 Thesameretracementpointismarkedherewithanarrow.
ThesamepointinthechartisindicatedbythearrowinFigure13.17,
which shows a much longer-term perspective on this stock. The price
moved in a series of lower highs and lower lows, which is the most reli-
abletrendyouwanttomonitorwhenjudgingwhenitistimetotakeprofits
and close the position. When the series of lower highs and lower lows is
violated,itisprobablytimetoclosethepositionandbankyourprofits.
MORE ON THE HEAD AND SHOULDERS
PATTERN
Let us reexamine the basic elements of the H&S pattern so you can
more readily recognize this pattern in your own trading. Charts may
not often present perfect manifestations of anything resembling two
shoulders and a head. But the price movement should be close enough
to warrant recognition of the pattern. Figure 13.18 shows a chart that, to
mostobservers, wouldseem tobenondescript priceaction. Therounded
rectanglesdrawnontopofthecharthelpcallouttheelementsweseek—a
leftshoulder,ahead,andarightshoulder.Therightshoulderdoesn’thave

P1:OTA
c13 JWBT295-Knight May25,2010 10:53 Printer:Yettocome
HeadandShoulders 335
FIGURE 13.18 Theseroundedrectangleshelpmoreplainlyshowwherethecom-
ponentpartsoftheH&Sare.
the characteristic of being lower than the left, but this is still a perfectly
reasonableH&Spattern.
SinceyoustudiedroundedtopsinChapter10,youmaywonderwhat
distinguishesaroundedtopfromanH&S.Thegeneralshapeandoutcome
ofthetwoissimilar—theybothrepresentalossofupwardmomentumin
a stock’s price that takes the shape of a gradual reversal. The H&S, how-
ever,doesitinthreestages,eachofwhichclingstotheneckline.TheH&S
(Figure 13.19) could even be thought of as three rounded tops, although
muchnarrowerintimescope.
The quality of the H&S is amplified when the right shoulder is lower
thantheleft(Figure13.20).Thereasonforthisisthatitindicatesthemar-
ket’s ability to push the stock higher is weaker than before. It has failed
to get as high as the head’s peak, and it has even failed to get as high as
the other shoulder’s peak. Owners of the stock will begin to give up, and
ifthenecklineisviolatedtothedownside,thesellingwillrapidlyintensify
throughacombinationofstopordersbeingexecutedandownersvoluntar-
ilyrushingfortheexits.
One of the maxims of the stock market is that stocks fall faster than
they rise. Traders not blessed with a lot of patience therefore finding

P1:OTA
c13 JWBT295-Knight May25,2010 10:53 Printer:Yettocome
336 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
FIGURE 13.19 ThedifferencebetweenaroundedtopandanH&Sisthepresence
ofaleftandrightshoulder,althoughtheeffectofbothpatternsissimilar.
FIGURE 13.20 A lower right shoulder is a good sign of basic weakness in the
stock.

P1:OTA
c13 JWBT295-Knight May25,2010 10:53 Printer:Yettocome
HeadandShoulders 337
FIGURE 13.21 Hereisanexcellentexampleofthepriceretracingtoitsneckline.
sellingstocksshortmorefulfilling,sincedescentsinpriceoftenhappenat
a quicker pace. Stocks usually slowly climb the fabled wall of worry, but
theycanswiftlyslidedowntheslopeofhope.
Figure13.21providesagoodexampleofhowapersonsellingastock
shortwouldenjoyarelativelyrapidprofit.Theneckline,at$31,isbroken,
andthestockfallstoabout$26.Thestockthentakesafewweekstoexe-
cuteanearlyperfectretracementtotheneckline,creatingagreatopportu-
nitytoenterintoashortpositionorbuyputsonthissecurity.
As illustrated in Figure 13.22, the fall in price was fast and furious. It
tookthisstockfiveyearstobuilditsequityupandonlyacoupleofmonths
for all that equity—and then some—to be wiped out. Those traders short
thisstockwouldhaveenjoyedaveryfastprofit,andthoseowningputson
this security would have enjoyed gigantic gains, all based upon the good
applicationofaneasilyrecognizedpattern.
Holdersofshortpositionsonthisstockwithmorepatiencewouldhave
seentheirprofitsgrowevenmore.Eventhoughthestockhadabigplunge
over atwo-month period, it was inasevere downtrend over thenext few
years(Figure13.23).Asyoucansee,itwouldhavebeenasomewhatnerve-
wrackingride,sincethestockthreatenedtopushaboveitsnecklineagain

P1:OTA
c13 JWBT295-Knight May25,2010 10:53 Printer:Yettocome
338 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
FIGURE 13.22 Ittookfiveyearsforthestocktoclimbthishighinpricebutonly
acoupleofmonthstodestroythesameamountofequity.
FIGURE 13.23 This retracement point, marked with an arrow, was perfect for
shortingthisstock.

P1:OTA
c13 JWBT295-Knight May25,2010 10:53 Printer:Yettocome
HeadandShoulders 339
FIGURE 13.24 ThisH&Spatternwasprecededbyamorethan10-foldincrease
inprice.
in early 2001. But by early 2003, the stock was beneath $4, a 90 percent
declinefromitspeakfouryearsearlier.
A vital prerequisite for fat profit potential with the H&S pattern is a
major increase in price preceding the pattern. If a stock’s neckline is at
$20, but for years it traded in a range between $16 and $18, there is very
littlereasontosellthestockshortsincethereissomuchsupportbeneath
the neckline. Figure 13.24, however, shows a stock with a gigantic price
increase. There is plenty of air beneath the neckline for the stock to fall.
There are certainly a couple of areas with some support along the way
down,butbecausethestockhassoaredmanyhundredsofpercent,there
isampleopportunityforittofallhard.
Thisparticularstock,DoralFinancial(tickerDRL)providesagoodex-
ample of how H&Spatterns may berather unusual inshape. Figure 13.25
illustrates the left shoulder, a very high head, and a right shoulder. The
neckline hasbeendrawnforthesakeofclarity.Inspiteoftheratherdis-
torted shape of the H&S, there was no diminishment in the power of this
patternasthestockfellfromabout$40to$5.
Doral,aswellasEpixPharmaceuticals(Figure13.26),providesproof
that a higher right shoulder doesn’t mean the H&S pattern should be

P1:OTA
c13 JWBT295-Knight May25,2010 10:53 Printer:Yettocome
340 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
FIGURE 13.25 Patternscansometimesbestrangelyshaped,butaslongasthe
basicrulesarestillappliedforanalysis,thepatternisvalid.
FIGURE 13.26 Just because the right shoulder is higher than the left does not
negatetheH&Spattern.

P1:OTA
c13 JWBT295-Knight May25,2010 10:53 Printer:Yettocome
HeadandShoulders 341
FIGURE 13.27 The day that the price broke below this stock’s neckline would
have been, in retrospect, a perfect time to get in, because the very next day the
stockgappeddownandneverlookedback.
ignored. Epix also illustrates how vital the neckline is to monitoring the
stock’s possible breakdown. On January 13, 2005, the stock fell below
its neckline. For those who did not want to wait for a possible retrace-
ment, this would have been an ideal time to enter a short position on the
stock,becausethenecklinewasdecisivelyviolated.Theverynextday,the
stock gapped down in price, almost instantly demonstrating the validity
andstrengthofthispatternforthisstock.
Subsequent to this break in price, the stock fell substantially before
regaining some strength. However, instead of retracing to the neckline,
it only retraced to the vicinity of the price gap before resuming its fall
(Figure13.27).Thosewaitingforaretracementtothenecklinewouldhave
never taken a position in this stock, but those who executed their trades
onthedayofthenecklinebreakwouldhaveenjoyedhandsomegains.
Itisn’tpractical,ofcourse,tomonitorhundredsofstockstoseewhat
necklines have been broken. There are many web sites that provide free
stockalertservicesontheInternet.Manyonlinebrokersalsoprovidethe
ability to enter a stock order contingent on a stock’s price. The neckline
forEPIX,forinstance, wasat$15.43.Youmighthaveenteredanorderto

P1:OTA
c13 JWBT295-Knight May25,2010 10:53 Printer:Yettocome
342 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
FIGURE 13.28 SomeH&Spatternscanprecedegiganticpricedeclines,suchas
thisone,whichledthestockalmostto$0.
sell the stock short if the price went below, forinstance, $15.40 (or some
otherpricelowenoughthatyoufeltconfidentthenecklinehadindeedbeen
violated).Thisway,youcouldputthetradeonautomaticpilotifyouwere
confidentenoughinthepattern.
Generally speaking, it is indeed better for the right shoulder to be
lowerinanH&Spattern.Giventhechoicebetweentwootherwiseidenti-
calH&Scharts,onewithahigherrightshoulderandonewithalowerright
shoulder, the latter is probably the more profitable choice. Fedders Corp
(Figure13.28)sportedaveryhighleftshoulder,ahead,andamuchlower
right shoulder. The stock broke the neckline, retraced almost back to it,
andthenspentmanysubsequentmonthsplottingoutaseriesoflowerlows
and lower highs. The damage to the stock was tremendous, bringing the
pricealmostdowntozero.
AdecisionyouwillfaceeverytimeyoufindanH&Spatterniswhether
to place a trade the moment the neckline is broken or instead wait for a
retracement.Avarietyoffactorswillcontributetoyourdecision,suchas
howhighthepotentialprofitis,howvolatilethestockis,howwell-formed
thepatternis,andyourownpastexperiencewithsimilarpatterns.Thereis
noonerightanswer,sinceeverychartandopportunityaredifferent.Ifyou

P1:OTA
c13 JWBT295-Knight May25,2010 10:53 Printer:Yettocome
HeadandShoulders 343
FIGURE 13.29 Entering a short position immediately upon the neckline break
canyieldbetterprofits,butitalsobringshigherrisk.
were looking at the chart shown in Figure 13.29, you might want to con-
siderwhatyouwoulddo—shortitatonce,orwaittoseewhathappened?
AsFigure13.30shows,thebestdecisioninthiscasewouldhavebeen
toplacethetradeatonce,perhapsusingacontingentorderwithyourbro-
kertoexecutethetradethemomentthepricedippedbeneaththeneckline.
Thestocknevermadeafullretracement,butitdidfallsubstantially.Only
those bold enough to make the trade without hesitation maximized their
profits.
Express Scripts (symbol ESRX) behaved quite differently, since its
retracement was orderly and didn’t even take very long to complete. The
arrows on the chart (Figure 13.31) simplify the stock’s behavior after the
trendline break, first moving from $80 to $64, a 20 percent drop in price,
and then returning to the neckline at $80 once more. It is possible that
the cleaner shape of the H&S pattern contributed to this more orderly
behavior.
A similar retracement can be seen with the small carrier Frontier
Airlines(symbolFRNT).Figure13.32showsthestockrunningupinprice
from $3.75 to nearly $20. Between the $15 and $19 range, the stock built
a relatively clean H&S pattern, although the neckline is a little rough.

P1:OTA
c13 JWBT295-Knight May25,2010 10:53 Printer:Yettocome
344 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
FIGURE 13.30 Therearemanyoccasionswherearetracementisonlypartial,not
makingitswayallthewaybacktotheneckline.
FIGURE 13.31 HereESRXgoesfullcirclefrom$80downto$64andthenback
to$80again.

P1:OTA
c13 JWBT295-Knight May25,2010 10:53 Printer:Yettocome
HeadandShoulders 345
FIGURE 13.32 The typical movement seen here is a break beneath the neck-
line followed by a strengthening of the stock back to a point just underneath the
sameline.
The stock broke down, falling rapidly for five days, then it spent the next
severalweeksfightingitswaybacktotheneckline.
The longer-term graph in Figure 13.33 reveals the aftermath of this
necklinebreak,withthearrowindicatingtheretracementpoint.Thisalso
helps illustratehow valuable it isfor an H&S pattern to be preceded by a
swiftrun-upinprice,becausetherewasvirtuallynomeaningfulsupporton
thewaydown.Ittooklongerforthestocktofallthanitdidtorise,whichis
somewhatunusual,butthedowntrendwasorderlyasthestocklostabout
60percentofitsvalueafterthebreak.
Many of the examples used in this chapter are from companies that
perhaps you had not heard of before. Important technical patterns such
as the H&S certainly are not restricted to small stocks, however. In Fig-
ure 13.34, General Electric’s stock price carved out a very good H&S pat-
tern with predictable results. Even though the H&S pattern is widely rec-
ognized, the vast majority of traders—even those involved with gigantic
stockslikeGE—donotunderstanditspowerandapplication.
On some occasions you will see an H&S pattern form above a price
gap. A price gap is an instance, in this case, where a stock’s price opens

P1:OTA
c13 JWBT295-Knight May25,2010 10:53 Printer:Yettocome
346 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
FIGURE 13.33 Thearrowmarkstheretracementpointofthispattern.
FIGURE 13.34 Even the largest cap stocks, such as gigantic GE, can fall badly
afteranH&Spatterniscomplete.

P1:OTA
c13 JWBT295-Knight May25,2010 10:53 Printer:Yettocome
HeadandShoulders 347
FIGURE 13.35 Thisnecklineat$78wasjustabovethelevelwherethepricehad
gappeduplatethepriorJuly.
at a price far above the prior day’s close and its trading remains at or
higher than the opening price, thus creating a gap in the price graph be-
tween where the previous day’s price has closed and where the current
day’spricehadopened.
AnH&Spatternwillusuallyformanecklineatorabovethehighpoint
ofthegap.AnexampleofthisisshowninFigure13.35,wherethe$78neck-
lineisjustabovethepricegap.Itisnotsurprisingthatthislevelrepresents
supportforthestock’sprice,sincewhatevereventcausedthestocktogap
up in the first place must have been so powerful as to create tremendous
demandforthestockatthatpricelevel.
Sinceabreakofthenecklinecanclosethepricegap,however,itwon’t
matter that there was a prior gap in price. The result for this particular
stock,showninFigure13.36,isthatayear’sworthofgainsweredestroyed
injustamonth,andthestockwentdowntopricelevelsthathadnotbeen
seeninyears.
As with trendlines, necklines have the two-faced, Janus-like property
of representing both resistance and support. When a stock is climbing
up, it may find resistance at the neckline level (even though the neckline
hasn’t even been established yet). During the formation of the H&S, the

P1:OTA
c13 JWBT295-Knight May25,2010 10:53 Printer:Yettocome
348 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
FIGURE 13.36 Ittookonlyamonthtowipeoutayear’sworthofpriceincrease
thisstockhadenjoyedearlier.
necklineundoubtedlyrepresentssupport,sincethat’stheverybasisofthe
pattern. Once the neckline is broken, the line changes again to be resis-
tance,andifthebuyersofthestockmanagetopushitupagaininprice,it
willlikelyreachaformidablelevelofresistanceatthenecklineonceagain.
Figure 13.37 shows the neckline acting in both manners, with the price
bouncingoffresistancebeforetheH&Swascreated.
If the price action before the H&S seems to treat the neckline as
resistance, it is more likely that the H&S pattern’s behavior will be more
predictable and orderly. Figure 13.38 shows that in early September this
stock,HotTopic,backedawayfromtheexactpricelevelthatwouldlater
be the neckline. The H&S formed, and the stock began falling, not even
pausingtoretrace.
Before turning our attention to some specific trading techniques, let
us examine three more examples of the H&S pattern. Figure 13.39 is the
stock for Juniper Networks (symbol JNPR), which had a fate similar to
Broadcom back in 2000 and 2001. As with Broadcom, the neckline that
formedwasnotperfectlyclean.Thepricedippedbelowthenecklinethree
differenttimes.
Again, as with Broadcom, the stock fell fantastically (Figure 13.40)
once the neckline was decisively broken. The drop is so severe that

P1:OTA
c13 JWBT295-Knight May25,2010 10:53 Printer:Yettocome
HeadandShoulders 349
FIGURE 13.37 Notice how the neckline, which represented support during the
H&Sformation,alsorepresentedresistancebeforetheH&Sevenbeganforming.
FIGURE 13.38 Hereweseeanexceptionallywell-definednecklineat$25.50.

P1:OTA
c13 JWBT295-Knight May25,2010 10:53 Printer:Yettocome
350 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
FIGURE 13.39 AswithBRCM,thebreakdownbeneaththenecklineofJNPRwas
notperfectlyclean.
FIGURE 13.40 Oneofthemostvisibleandcatastrophicfallsofabig-namestock
fromtheInternetmaniawaspredictedbyanH&Spattern.

P1:OTA
c13 JWBT295-Knight May25,2010 10:53 Printer:Yettocome
HeadandShoulders 351
FIGURE 13.41 Theleftandrightshouldersaremoredifficulttoseehere,since
theydonottouchthenecklinecleanly.
the H&S pattern, which in Figure 13.39 was quite substantial, appears as
just a tiny feature in Figure 13.40. You can see the small neckline in the
upper-leftcornerofthechart.
Trading experience based ontheH&S patternwillgive you moredis-
cernment when it comes to unusual pattern recognition. The stock for
MovieGallery,Inc(Figure13.41)formedapatternthathasthemarkingsof
anH&S.Itisnotaperfectpatternbyanystretchoftheimagination,partic-
ularlysincethenecklineisn’tevencontactedoneithersideofthepattern’s
head.Inspiteofthecoarsenessofthispattern,thereareseveralsignsthat
thisisagoodstocktoshort—therightshoulderbeinglowerthantheleft,
the clean retracement back to the neckline, and the substantial run-up in
pricebeforethepatternformed.
Being able to see past the imperfections of Movie Gallery’s H&S pat-
tern would have been a profitable observation (Figure 13.42). The stock
fell away from the pattern and didn’t stop making new lows until it was
beneath$2.
SometimestheH&Spatterncanexpressitselfinasomewhatmutated
form, sporting more than one shoulder. This is sometimes referred to as
aComplexHeadandShoulderspattern.Figure13.43,forinstance,shows

P1:OTA
c13 JWBT295-Knight May25,2010 10:53 Printer:Yettocome
352 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
FIGURE 13.42 Thisstockfellvirtuallynon-stoptounder$2persharebeforethe
sellingwasover.
FIGURE 13.43 Thispatternisn’tquiteasclean,asithastwoshouldersonthe
rightside.

P1:OTA
c13 JWBT295-Knight May25,2010 10:53 Printer:Yettocome
HeadandShoulders 353
FIGURE 13.44 Thebreakbeneaththisnecklinewasextremelyswift.
apatternthathastworightshoulders.Havinganonstandardpatterntakes
awaysomeofthevalidity,butitisstillworthwatchingachartlikethisto
seeifthenecklineisclearlybroken.Thefactthattherightmostshoulderis
lowerthantheearlierrightshoulderisapositivesignforthebears,since
itemphasizesthegeneralweaknessofthestock.
Ithasbeenpointedoutthattradesmadeimmediatelyuponaneckline
break are often the most profitable. It should be remembered that some-
times these breaks are so swift (Figure 13.44) you can find yourself at a
relatively bad entry point, in spite of your intentions to get into a short
positionquickly.Asofthiswriting,thereisstillanuptickruleinplacefor
selling a stock short, which means that if a stock is falling straight down,
yourorderwillnotbefilleduntilthestockmovesupabit.Forthisreason,
you may want to limit the price you will accept when you construct the
ordertoentertheshortposition,sinceyoudonotwanttosellitattoolow
(andrisky)aprice.
TRADING ON THE H&S PATTERN
BecausetheH&Spatternissoreliantonitsnecklineforsupport,abreak-
downinthispatterncanhappenmoreswiftlythanothers.Ifyouarehighly

P1:OTA
c13 JWBT295-Knight May25,2010 10:53 Printer:Yettocome
354 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
FIGURE 13.45 A contingent order on this security would probably have pro-
ducedabetterexecutionforapersontryingtoshortthisstock.
confident about a particular trade, you might want to place a contingent
order on the stock you are following. This allows you to enter a mar-
ket order to sell the stock short if it crosses below a certain price value
(Figure 13.45), which means you do not have to monitor the stock con-
stantlyforyourentryopportunity.
The more difficult issue is when to take profits on your position. Any
position creates the two emotions that all traders know well: fear and
greed. The fear comes about because you are afraid of profits diminish-
ing(or,evenworse,changingintolosses).Andthegreedcomesintoplay
since you want to make as much as you can on the position. But there is
nowaytoknowwithcertaintythatwhenyoucloseapositionitwillbeat
thebestpossibletime.
Tounderstandsomeoftheanalysisthatcanhelpwiththecrucialissue
ofwhentocloseaposition,wewillexaminetheformationofthepattern
inthefirstplace.Figure13.46showshowatypicalH&Spatternisformed,
which is as a series of higher highs and higher lows. It is the cessation of
thisseriesthatcreatesthefirstshoulder,whenthepricesinksbackdown
toequalthepriorlowpoint,thusestablishingwhatwillbethenecklinefor
thepattern.

P1:OTA
c13 JWBT295-Knight May25,2010 10:53 Printer:Yettocome
HeadandShoulders 355
FIGURE 13.46 Aseriesofhigherhighsandhigherlowsisbroken,whichwasthe
beginningoftheH&Spattern.
Thenatureofthisascentinpriceiswhatissoimportantinevaluating
your target price for the position. If the rise in price was rapid, the stock
is more prone to fall quickly. If the rise was steady and had a number of
plateausinpricealongtheway,itismorelikelythatthestockwillpause
duringitsdescentatthoselevelsaswell.Figure13.47showsastockwhose
climbinpricepriortothepatternwasdevoidofmuchsupport,whichisa
verypositivesignforthosetakingabearishpositiononthesecurity.
Ifandwhenthestockdoesbreakbelowtheneckline,itshouldforma
seriesoflowerlowsandlowerhighs(Figure13.48).Aslongasitisinsuch
amode,itiswisetohangontotheposition.Whatyouwanttolookforare
areasofmeaningfulsupportduringtheriseprecedingthepattern.Youdo
notnecessarilyhavetocloseoutthepositionwhenitreachesthoselevels,
but you can expect the descent to slow, and you should be more vigilant
than normal about closing the position should the lower lows and lower
highs pattern be violated. Since it is usually impractical to watch a stock
chartallday,youcanresetyourstop-lossorderswithyourbrokersothat
thepositionisclosedautomaticallyifacertainpriceisviolated.Thatprice
can be determined by what would constitute a break in the lower lows,
lowerhighscycle.

P1:OTA
c13 JWBT295-Knight May25,2010 10:53 Printer:Yettocome
356 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
FIGURE 13.47 There is very little in the way of support beneath this stock’s
neckline.
FIGURE 13.48 Aseriesoflowerlowsandlowerhighsfollowedthisstock’sbreak.

P1:OTA
c13 JWBT295-Knight May25,2010 10:53 Printer:Yettocome
HeadandShoulders 357
FIGURE 13.49 Afteraverycleanbreak,thestockpricepushesalittleabovethe
necklineontheretracement.
Ifyouenterapositionimmediatelyafterthenecklinebreak,thelogical
place to put a stop is above the neckline. The question of how much to
put it above the neckline is important, because that is where you control
howmuchriskyouwilltake.Themostconservativestop-lossorderwould
be set a penny above the neckline, since the assumption is that once the
necklineisviolated,anypriceactionabovethenecklinerenderstheH&S
pattern moot. That is probably too draconian an approach. It is riskier,
but in a way more prudent, to give the stock a little wiggle room on the
stop-loss order (Figure 13.49), perhaps setting the stop-loss a couple of
percentagepointsabovetheneckline.
InthecaseofthestockshowninFigure13.50,allowingasmallamount
of overage above the neckline would have been a profitable decision, be-
cause even though the retracement went a little above the neckline, the
stocksoftenedupagainandfelldramatically,losingalmostitsentirevalue.
If a person had set a very tight stop just above the neckline, the position
wouldhavebeenclosedataloss,andamarvelousprofitwouldhavebeen
abandoned.
Onerelativelyremotepossibilityisthatastockwillgapdowninprice
andbreakitsneckline(Figure13.51).Forexample,supposeanecklinewas

P1:OTA
c13 JWBT295-Knight May25,2010 10:53 Printer:Yettocome
358 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
FIGURE 13.50 Allowingforasmallamountofsafetymarginduringthisretrace-
mentwouldhavebeenalucrativedecision.
FIGURE 13.51 Thisstockbrokeitsnecklinesuddenlywithagapdowninprice.

P1:OTA
c13 JWBT295-Knight May25,2010 10:53 Printer:Yettocome
HeadandShoulders 359
FIGURE 13.52 Astockcanoftenfallmuchfasterinpricethanittooktoclimb
thereinthefirstplace.
at$50,andastockhadapartiallycompletedH&Spatternwithaleftshoul-
der, a head, and most of a right shoulder. Further assume that the stock
closed on Wednesday at a price of $60, and after the market closed, the
company announced very bad earnings. The next morning, on Thursday,
theopeningpriceforthestockis$38.Thisisagapdowninprice,because
thereisnotradingactivitybetween$60and$38,andallofthatequityvalue
wasinstantlylost.
Itisimportanttounderstandthisifyouplantoleaveacontingentorder
open for a stock. Although it is not very likely such a dramatic gap down
willoccur,itschanceofoccurringmakesitmoreprudenttoentertheorder
asaday-ordereachday,insteadofagood-until-cancelledorder,whichwill
remain until you specifically cancel it. This gives you a better measure of
controloveryourtrading.
For the stock that was shown in Figure 13.51, the gap down in price
didn’tmaketheresultoftheH&Spatternanylessvaluable(Figure13.52).
The general point, however, is that it is better to put in your contingent
ordersatthestartofeachdayonaday-onlybasisinsteadofhavinganopen
riskofaradicallydifferentopeningpricetriggeringyourstandingorder.

P1:OTA
c13 JWBT295-Knight May25,2010 10:53 Printer:Yettocome
360 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
FIGURE 13.53 Apricewillsometimesbobblearoundanecklinebeforebreaking
cleanly.Itissafesttowaitforacleanbreak.
Althoughbeingsomewhatforgivingwithhowfararetracementwillgo
isawiseidea,youshouldbecarefulnottoenteranorderifthepriceofthe
security seems to be clinging to the neckline instead of clearly breaking
beneath it (Figure 13.53). The neckline, after all, represents an important
level of support. In other words, this price level is a line of equilibrium
betweenbullsandbears,anditneedstobeplainlyviolatedtothedownside
forthebearstobeplausiblyincontrolofthepriceaction.
Ifagapdowninpricetakesplaceafterthenecklinehasalreadybeen
violated,thatisgoodnewsforthosewhoareshortthestock(Figure13.54).
But it should also be noted that the chance of a retracement piercing
throughthatpricegapisgreatlydiminished,sothosewaitingforaretrace-
menttothenecklinewillprobablybedisappointed.Instead,thebottomof
the price gap should be respected as an important area of resistance that
shouldbeheededasmuchasthenecklinewouldhavebeen.
One final note on the H&S pattern is that the neckline doesn’t nec-
essarily have to be horizontal. Although it is most logical as a horizon-
tal line, since this represents an agreed-upon line in the sand dividing
bulls and bears, you can also recognize modestly angled necklines as le-
gitimate definers of H&S patterns. In Figure 13.55, for instance, Hershey

P1:OTA
c13 JWBT295-Knight May25,2010 10:53 Printer:Yettocome
HeadandShoulders 361
FIGURE 13.54 Thegap-downfollowingthisnecklinebreakindicatedaretrace-
mentwasprobablynotgoingtohappen.
FIGURE 13.55 Necklinesdonotnecessarilyhavetobehorizontaltoindicatea
validH&Spattern.

P1:OTA
c13 JWBT295-Knight May25,2010 10:53 Printer:Yettocome
362 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
FIGURE 13.56 TheretracementofHershey’stouchedtheslopedlineperfectly.
(symbolHSY)sportsanH&Spatternwithanupward-slopingneckline.The
patternisquitewellformed,andafterthebreakbeneaththeneckline,the
price moves neatly up to perfectly touch the underside of the neckline,
whichhasnowchangedfromsupporttoresistance.
AsillustratedinFigure13.56,Hershey’spricecontinuedtomovedown
oncetheretracementwascomplete.ThesamerulesapplytoanH&Swith
aslantednecklineaswouldapplytoahorizontalone.Thenecklineissim-
ply drawn differently, and the retracement (should it happen at all) will
correspondingly move to a slightly different level than if the line were
perfectlyflat.
THE INVERTED HEAD AND SHOULDERS
PATTERN
WhereastheH&Spatternisareliablebearishpattern,thereisaversionof
theH&Sthatisinsteadbullish;itiscalledtheInvertedHeadandShoulders
pattern(forthesakeofbrevity,IHS).Asthenameimplies,itissimilarto
theH&Spattern,exceptthatitisupsidedown.Ithasaleftshoulder,ahead,

P1:OTA
c13 JWBT295-Knight May25,2010 10:53 Printer:Yettocome
HeadandShoulders 363
FIGURE 13.57 This chart shows, within a relatively short amount of time, an
invertedH&SandaregularH&Sonthesamestock.
and a right shoulder, all of which are topped by a neckline. The principal
differenceisthatthenecklinerepresentsresistanceinsteadofsupport,and
bullswatchingthispatternwanttoseethepricebreakaboveresistance.
As an initial illustration of this pattern, Figure 13.57 shows a stock
with both an IHS pattern as well as, later, a regular H&S pattern. The in-
vertedH&S,shownontheleftsideofthechart,precedesadramaticrisein
price.TheH&Spattern,shownontherightsideofthechart,precedesabig
plungeinprice.Eventhoughthisisthesamestock,itoffersbothpatterns
atdifferentpointsintime,eachofwhichhadtheexpectedresult.
Insteadofstartingwithaperfectexample,letuslookatamoretypical,
real-lifeexampleinFigure13.58.Thenecklineisdrawnforthesakeofclar-
ity.Thereisaleftshoulder,averydeepdescentinpricetocreatethehead,
andthenarightshoulder.Althoughthestockverybrieflypeaksabovethe
$3.40neckline,itdipsbelowitandspendsafewmonthsgainingstrength.
Whenitfinallybreaksabovethenecklineforreal,thestockenjoysanearly
10-foldincreaseinpriceoverthenextsixyears.
Two rules have been mentioned about H&S patterns that apply to its
invertedcousinaswell:(1)thelongerthepattern,themorepowerfulitis,
and (2) the price action prior to the pattern should be significant (to the

P1:OTA
c13 JWBT295-Knight May25,2010 10:53 Printer:Yettocome
364 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
FIGURE 13.58 Theinitialbreakoutabovethenecklineforthisstockwasweak,
and it took a second, more earnest attempt to truly break above the pattern
formation.
upside for the H&S pattern and to the downside for the inverted version)
forthebreakinthepatterntohavemuchpotential.
The stock for C. R. Bard (Figure 13.59) provides an example of both
these properties. The stock had gone through a long, grinding descent in
price during the infamous 1973–1974 bear market. It then spent the en-
tirerestofthedecadechurningbetweenasplit-adjustedpriceof45cents
and90cents.Inthecourseofdoingso,itproducedaverypotentIHSpat-
tern.Thenecklinehasbeendrawnhorizontallyacrossthechartforclarity,
andalthoughthepatternisn’tperfectinallrespects,youshouldbeableto
clearlymakeoutthecomponentsofthepattern.
When the price broke above the neckline, the results were profound.
For literally decades following the break, the stock moved up in price by
thousands andthousands ofpercent (Figure13.60).A$15,000investment
at the breakout would have grown to over $1 million by 2005, since the
stockmadeapowerfulandreliableseriesofhigherhighsandhigherlows
allthroughthe1980sand1990s.
VolumeplaysamoreimportantroleintheinvertedH&Spatternthan
itdoeswiththeH&S.Thereasonisthatastockneedspowertorise,butit

P1:OTA
c13 JWBT295-Knight May25,2010 10:53 Printer:Yettocome
HeadandShoulders 365
FIGURE 13.59 ThismassiveinvertedH&Spatternhammeredoutacriticalbot-
tomforthisstockafteralongdescent.
FIGURE 13.60 Thispatternspansyears,anditseffectswerefeltfordecadesto
come.

P1:OTA
c13 JWBT295-Knight May25,2010 10:53 Printer:Yettocome
366 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
FIGURE 13.61 Thevolumeofthisstockdriedupnearthebottom,astheselling
pressureexhausteditself.Asurgecameduringtheinitialbreakout.
canfallofitsownweighttothedownside. Ideally,youwillwanttoseea
surgeinvolumeatthebreakout,andifthereisaretracementbacktothe
neckline, you should probably see a tapering off in price before it begins
itsriseanew.
The broker optionsXpress (Figure 13.61) gives us a nice example of
volume in the context of an IHS pattern. During the formation of the left
shoulderandhead,thevolumedriedup,indicatingthatthesellingpressure
wasdiminishing.Duringthecreationoftherightshoulder,volumestarted
torise,whichwasagoodsignforthebullssinceitindicatedmorebuying
interestataslightlyhigherpricepoint.Therealsurgeinvolumecamewhen
thestockbrokeoutaboveitsneckline.
Asthestockproceededtotripleinprice,thevolumecontinuedgrow-
ing,indicatingawideningbaseofinterestinthestock(Figure13.62).The
simplemonitoringofanecklinewasallthatwasrequiredtogetinonthis
stockearlyenoughtoenjoyvirtuallytheentireupsideofthismove.
The stock for RosTelecom (Figure 13.63) gives another illustration
of volume versus price action. There are two big bursts of volume here.
The first is during the completion of the head part of the pattern, which

P1:OTA
c13 JWBT295-Knight May25,2010 10:53 Printer:Yettocome
HeadandShoulders 367
FIGURE 13.62 Surgingvolumeduringanupturnisanindicationofstrength.
FIGURE 13.63 Thesurgeinvolumeherecomesattherighttime,whichiswhen
thestockispushingoffitslowsandmovingtowardtheneckline.

P1:OTA
c13 JWBT295-Knight May25,2010 10:53 Printer:Yettocome
368 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
FIGURE 13.64 Patternsaren’talwaysperfectlyclean,soitisimportanttowork
onyouranalysisskillstohelpfilterouttherandomnoisebuiltwithinachartandstill
seethevalidpatternclearly.
indicates a surge of buying interest after the stock has bottomed out.
The next surge is during an attempted (but failed) breakout above the
neckline.
The aftermath of this inverted H&S was a terrific upside for bulls
(Figure 13.64). This pattern is a little unusual since there are two right
shoulders(oronelargerightshoulderwithafalsebreakoutinthemiddle),
butthenecklinedrawnmakesplainthepattern’sshapeandlocation.
WiththenormalH&Spattern,itisagoodsignwhentherightshoulder
is lower than the left shoulder, since that suggests waning strength in
the stock’s price. The inverted H&S pattern has a corollary—it is a better
patterniftherightshoulderishigherthantheleftshoulder(Figure13.65).
Inotherwords,thepricesontherightshouldershouldnotdipasfardown
as the prices on the left shoulder, since a higher right shoulder suggests
morestrength.
TheresultofthispatternwasanearlyfivefoldincreaseinpriceforAES
Corporation (Figure 13.66). All the elements were in place for a positive
outcome:asubstantialdecreaseinpricepriortothepattern,acleanIHS,a
highrightshoulder,andagoodbreakoutabovetheneckline.

P1:OTA
c13 JWBT295-Knight May25,2010 10:53 Printer:Yettocome
HeadandShoulders 369
FIGURE 13.65 The right shoulder being shallower than the left shoulder is an
indicationofstrength,whichenhancesthepoweroftheinvertedH&S.
FIGURE 13.66 TheinvertedH&Smarkedtheendofasubstantialdeclineforthis
stock.

P1:OTA
c13 JWBT295-Knight May25,2010 10:53 Printer:Yettocome
370 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
FIGURE 13.67 ThisstockshowsanalmostperfectinvertedH&Spattern:ashoul-
der,ahead,asomewhathigherrightshoulder,abreakout,andthenaretracement.
PerhapsoneofthecleanestIHSpatternsinrecenthistorywasforthe
stock of Asyst Technologies (Figure 13.67). The neckline is at $5.50, and
the pattern below it is perfectly formed. After the price breaks above the
neckline,aretracementpreciselydowntothenecklinetakesplace.
Following the formation of this pattern, Asyst Technologies (ASYT)
swiftly doubled in price (Figure 13.68), in spite of the fact that it had re-
centlybeeninaseveredownturn.Thispatternwaseasytorecognizeand
profitabletotrade.
The importance ofavolume surge during apricebreakout isdifficult
tooverstate.Avolumesurgeconfirmsthatthereisastronginterestinthe
stock,andvolumeoftenbegetsmorevolume.Whenastockexplodesinvol-
ume,itappearson“MostActive”listsandotherscansthattradersfollow.
Figure 13.69 shows a particularly strong explosion in volume following a
breakout.
ForaninvertedH&Spatterntohavetworightshouldersisn’tuncom-
mon,sincetherewillstillbehesitationandskepticismsurroundingastock
thathasspentsomuchtimegoingdowninprice.Thosewaitingontheside-
lines will want the stock to prove it is capable of sustained upward price
movement before they are willing to commit to purchasing it, so it may

P1:OTA
c13 JWBT295-Knight May25,2010 10:53 Printer:Yettocome
HeadandShoulders 371
FIGURE 13.68 ASYT doubled in price after its breakout, in spite of a relatively
recentseveredeclineinprice.
FIGURE 13.69 Noticetheexceptionalsurgeinvolumefollowingthebreakout.

P1:OTA
c13 JWBT295-Knight May25,2010 10:53 Printer:Yettocome
372 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
FIGURE 13.70 Thiscouldbeinterpretedastwopatternsinone:aninvertedH&S
aswellasacupwithhandle,sincetheinvertedH&Smakesupthecupportionofthe
pattern.
takeacoupleofearnestattemptstopiercethenecklinebeforethepattern
completes(Figure13.70).
The follow-up to Figure 13.70 is shown in Figure 13.71, which illus-
trates the fourfold increase in price of the stock for Fred’s, Inc. (FRED).
You can plainly see the retracement return the price to its neckline level
several months after the breakout, followed by a virtually uninterrupted
increaseinequityvalue.
Theexchange-tradedfundfortheRussell1000index(symbolIWD)is
illustrated in Figure 13.72. In this instance, you would be faced with the
decision about where to draw the neckline, since the price doesn’t quite
comeupashighinJanuaryasitdidthepriorAugust.Incaseslikethis,you
shouldplacethenecklineatthehighestpoint,sincethatistheresistance
level. A breakout cannot really occur until all the recent high prices have
beenbested.
The effects of an inverted H&S breakout can last for years, or even
decades.ForsymbolIWD,thepricemovedhigherforseveralyearsfollow-
ingthebreakout(Figure13.73).

P1:OTA
c13 JWBT295-Knight May25,2010 10:53 Printer:Yettocome
HeadandShoulders 373
FIGURE 13.71 FREDincreasedinvaluefourfoldonceitbrokeaboveitsneckline.
FIGURE 13.72 Hereweseeanextremelywell-formedinvertedH&Swiththeneck-
lineat$47.50.

P1:OTA
c13 JWBT295-Knight May25,2010 10:53 Printer:Yettocome
374 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
FIGURE 13.73 The price progress following the breakout was steady and con-
sistentforyears.
Knowingwheretoplacethenecklineisn’tasobviousastheearlierex-
amples inthischapter would suggest. Of course, iffiguring out theplace-
mentofthenecklineistoohard,perhapsthepatternisnotwell-definedin
thefirstplace.Figure13.74showsachartwhosenecklinecouldbeplaced
at either $22.75 or $26. Either would be appropriate, although the more
conservative approach is to assume a higher neckline, which generates a
moredifficult-to-achievebreakoutforthestock.
Sometimes a pattern can take on such a shape that it is actually two
patterns combined into one. Examine Figure 13.75 closely, for instance.
Thereisaverywell-formedIHSpatternspanningtheleftmostthirdofthis
chart.Yetifyoulookattheportionofthechartbeneaththehorizontalline,
it also resembles a cup-with-handle formation. The inverted H&S pattern
constitutes the cup, and a handle is formed to its immediate right. These
are complementary patterns—both bullish—and their prediction played
outnicelyasthestockdoubledinprice.
Youmaywonderifthewidth(thatis,theamountoftime)oftheshoul-
ders and head need to be similar. It makes for an easier-to-find pattern
when their widths are relatively close, but it is not a necessity of the pat-
tern.Evenaverynarrowelementofthepatternisacceptable,suchasthe

P1:OTA
c13 JWBT295-Knight May25,2010 10:53 Printer:Yettocome
HeadandShoulders 375
FIGURE 13.74 Findingtherightplacetoplacethenecklineissomethingyouwill
getbetteratwithexperience.
FIGURE 13.75 The owners of KMG enjoyed more than a doubling of price fol-
lowingthisbreakoutabovetheneckline.

P1:OTA
c13 JWBT295-Knight May25,2010 10:53 Printer:Yettocome
376 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
FIGURE 13.76 Therightshoulderofthispatternisverynarrow,butitqualifies
nonetheless.
chartshowninFigure13.76.Inthiscase,therightshoulderisjustafraction
of the width of the head and left shoulder, but because the basic rules of
thepatternarestillintact,thisisaperfectlylegitimatebullishshape.
Thefollow-throughtothechartshowninFigure13.76isillustratedin
Figure13.77.Afterapicture-perfectretracementtotheneckline,theprice
moved solidly higher. It is more common for a retracement to take place
with an inverted H&S pattern, simply because there is a built-in caution
inthemarketaboutpushing astockhigherthathasbeendepressed fora
while. Whereas a stock in an H&S pattern can quickly fall based on fear
and panic, a stock shaping up for a solid breakout higher has to fight the
traditional wall of worry, thus often providing a second chance to get in
withtheformofaretracement.
Oneextremelywell-knownstockthatprovidedperhapsthemostideal
invertedH&SpatterninyearswasthatofQwestCommunications(symbol
Q),showninFigure13.78.Twohorizontallineshavebeendrawnhere—the
loweronetoemphasizethelowerboundsoftheshoulders,andtheupper
onetoshowthelocationoftheneckline.Ontheextremerightofthegraph,
youcanseeaverycleanretracementthatwasexecutedverysoonafterthe
firstbreakout.

P1:OTA
c13 JWBT295-Knight May25,2010 10:53 Printer:Yettocome
HeadandShoulders 377
FIGURE 13.77 SymbolLVLThadaperfectretracementtoitsnecklineatapprox-
imately$2.70.
FIGURE 13.78 The stock for Qwest, symbol Q, had about the most perfect in-
vertedH&Sexampleyoucouldwant.

P1:OTA
c13 JWBT295-Knight May25,2010 10:53 Printer:Yettocome
378 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
FIGURE 13.79 Followingitsbreakout,Qmovedmuchhigherandneverviolated
itsnecklinetothedownside.
With such an exceptional pattern, it is no surprise that Q performed
marvelously after the retracement (Figure 13.79). The pattern was two-
and-a-halfyearsinthemaking,butduringthattimethepsychologyofthe
holders of the stock gradually shifted to one of optimism, which was fed
bymorenewbuyersintothestock.
Mostchartsaren’tnearlyasperfectasthatofQ.Theneckline,forex-
ample,doesn’thavetotoucheveryelementofeachIHScomponenttothe
penny. You need to use your own judgment and experience to assess if a
patternisacceptablycleanandclearenoughtowarrantmakingatrade.In
Figure 13.80, the pattern is otherwise clean, but the left shoulder doesn’t
quite make it up to the neckline on both sides. That is all right, however,
since it is more important that the stock build strength later in time, as it
didontherightshoulder.
Justastheearlierexampleshowstwopatternsinonechartsimultane-
ously, you also may sometimes see two IHS patterns within one another.
Having a pattern with two necklines—one lower, one higher—usually

P1:OTA
c13 JWBT295-Knight May25,2010 10:53 Printer:Yettocome
HeadandShoulders 379
FIGURE 13.80 The left shoulder in this pattern isn’t quite perfect, because it
doesn’ttouchthenecklineentirely,butthatdidn’tmakethebreakoutanylesspre-
dictive.
means the pattern is that much more powerful, since the larger pat-
tern is affirming and strengthening the smaller one. Redback Networks
(RBAK),inFigure13.81,hasanexceptionallygoodinvertedH&Spattern,
and the lower horizontal line clearly shows the neckline of the smaller
pattern.
In a longer-term view (Figure 13.82), two necklines can be seen. The
behaviorofthepriceaboveeachnecklinewassimilar—abreakout,apar-
tial retracement, and then continued strength. An observer of this stock
need not have waited for the formation and penetration of the higher
neckline.Thesecond,highernecklinesimplyconfirmsthestrengthofthe
chart, as can be seen with the steady upward direction following both
breakouts.
Let’s round out our examination of head and shoulders patterns with
Figures 13.83 through 13.90, which will be captioned with the length (in
time)andstrength(inpercentage)oftheirrespectivebreakouts,fromthe
necklinetothepointofmaximumchange.

P1:OTA
c13 JWBT295-Knight May25,2010 10:53 Printer:Yettocome
380 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
FIGURE 13.81 HereistheinitialbreakoutofRBAKfromitsinvertedH&Spattern.
FIGURE 13.82 Therearetwonecklinesinthisstock,whichissomewhatunusual.

P1:OTA
c13 JWBT295-Knight May25,2010 10:53 Printer:Yettocome
HeadandShoulders 381
FIGURE 13.83 Allied Capital—length of move 70 days; strength of move +69
percent.
FIGURE 13.84 Melco Crown—length of move 348days; strength of move −87
percent.

P1:OTA
c13 JWBT295-Knight May25,2010 10:53 Printer:Yettocome
382 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
FIGURE 13.85 IsleofCapriCasinos—lengthofmove364days;strengthofmove
−88percent.
FIGURE 13.86 Hutchinson Technology—length of move 397 days; strength of
move−69percent.

P1:OTA
c13 JWBT295-Knight May25,2010 10:53 Printer:Yettocome
HeadandShoulders 383
FIGURE 13.87 Hovnanian Enterprises—length of move 639 days; strength of
move−98percent.

P1:OTA
c13 JWBT295-Knight May25,2010 10:53 Printer:Yettocome
384 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
FIGURE 13.88 Russell2000index—lengthofmove157days;strengthofmove
−47percent.

P1:OTA
c13 JWBT295-Knight May25,2010 10:53 Printer:Yettocome
HeadandShoulders 385
FIGURE 13.89 Allegheny Energy—length of move 188 days; strength of move
−55percent.
FIGURE 13.90 Prologis—length of move 129 days; strength of move −95 per-
cent.

P1:OTA
c13 JWBT295-Knight May25,2010 10:53 Printer:Yettocome
386 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
SUMMARY
Both the Head and Shoulders and the Inverted Head and Shoulders pat-
ternsareeasytorecognizeandprofitabletoolsinyourtradingarsenal.You
haveseendozensofreal-lifeexamplesofhowpowerfulthesepatternscan
bewithbothbearishandbullishmoves.Wenowwillturnourattentionto
thefinal setof drawingtoolsavailable toyou, theFibonacci objects—the
retracement,timeseries,arcs,andfans.

P1:OTA
c14 JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 10:6 Printer:Yettocome
C H A P T E R 14
Pattern
Recognition
T
he basis of a large portion of technical analysis is pattern
recognition—that is, the ability to spot one of the classic technical
patterns(suchasawedge,aheadandshoulders,oratriplebottom)
and estimate in what direction and by what amount the price is likely to
move.
Thereareacoupleofdisadvantagestolookingforpatternsmanually.
First,ittakesalotofexperience.Gettingtheabilitytolookatachartand
accurately discern what pattern, if any, is present, takes years of experi-
ence as a technical analyst. Second, it takes a lot of time. Going through
hundredsofchartstolookforahandfulofhigh-probabilitypatternscould
easilyconsumehoursofyourtime,andevenifyoudecidedtomakease-
rioustimecommitment,youcouldnotasapracticalmattergothroughall
thestocksthattradeonthemajorexchanges.
Fortunately, ProphetCharts has a couple of tools that automatically
findpatternsinstockcharts.Onetoollocatestheclassictechnicalanalysis
patterns over the course of many years of stock data, and the other tool
finds short-term candlestick patterns. This chapter will introduce you to
bothofthesetoolsandtheireffectiveuse.
HOW TO FIND PATTERNS
The ProphetCharts historical price database automatically keeps track of
patterns as they emerge. Getting to this information is simply a matter of
387

P1:OTA
c14 JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 10:6 Printer:Yettocome
388 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
FIGURE 14.1 You can access up-to-date patterns results by clicking Find
Patterns.
establishing the parameters of your search so the qualifying symbols can
bedeliveredtoyourcopyofProphetCharts.
ThefirstthingyoudoischooseFindPatternsfromthePatternsmenu,
asshowninFigure14.1.
TheFindPatternsdialogboxcomesup,andwithinthatboxthereare
fivedifferenttabs:General,Patterns,Ratings,WatchLists,andFilters.You
can choose any of these five tabs to fine-tune the nature of your pattern
search.Wewillgothrougheachofthesetabsindividually.
The first tab, General, is the one that shows up when you first bring
up the Find Patterns dialog box (Figure 14.2). It has a variety of check-
boxes, dropdown menus, and radio buttons. As with the vast majority of
the choices available in Find Patterns, you don’t have to make selections
ineverysingleoneoftheseparameters.Theyaremostlytheretogiveyou
theabilitytocustomizeyoursearch.
TheGeneraltabhasthefollowingparameters:
(cid:1)
FindSymbolswithPatterns:Youneedtocheckthisboxtoactivate
thesearchfunction.Asthedescriptionindicates,theresultingsymbols
willshowupinthePatternsmodule.
(cid:1)
Orderresultsby:Thereisadropdownmenuherewitheightdifferent
choicesforyoutoestablishthebasisofsortingtheresults.Thedefault,
sortingbySymbol,isusuallybest.
(cid:1)
Show Patterns on Charted Symbol: If you check this box,
ProphetChartswillautomaticallydrawthelinesthatconstitutetheba-
sisforthesymbolsfound.Itisverylikelyyou’llwanttocheckthisbox,
since the whole point of the pattern recognition engine is to see the
patterns.
(cid:1)
LimitSearchResult:Youcanrestrictthequantityofsymbolsthatare
displayedhere.Ifyouenteranumberthatissmallerthantheresulting
list,theexcesssymbolswillnotbedisplayed.

P1:OTA
c14 JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 10:6 Printer:Yettocome
PatternRecognition 389
FIGURE 14.2 Ofthefivetabs,Generalhasthemostimportantparameters.
(cid:1)
Length: There are two fields here—Min and Max Bars—that let you
state the number of price bars that will make up your search. For in-
stance,ifyouweresearchingdailychartsforpatterns,andyouwanted
toseeonlypatternsbetween50and200daysinlength,youwoulden-
ter50intheMinboxand200intheMaxbox.Itisaprettygoodideato
setaMinvalue,becausethelongerthepricepattern,thestrongerand
morereliableittendstobe.
(cid:1)
Direction: Here are three radio buttons: Bullish, Bearish, and Both.
Youmustchooseoneofthesetostatewhetheryouwanttoseekbullish
patterns,bearishpatterns,orboth.
(cid:1)
Trend: There are also three radio buttons here: Continuation, Rever-
sal,andBoth.Trendisanimportantdistinctionwhenseekingpatterns.
If you want to seek patterns that are echoing their general trend (for
instance,ifyouwanttoseekbullishpatternsthatareinstocksthatare
already behaving bullishly), choose Continuation; if you are looking
for changes in direction (such as bearish patterns in bullish stocks),
chooseReversal;ifitdoesn’tmatter,chooseBoth.
(cid:1)
Breakout:Thepatternrecognitionengineisalwaysmonitoringprices,
including patterns that are in development but may not necessarily
complete. You can choose to seek only patterns that have completed

P1:OTA
c14 JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 10:6 Printer:Yettocome
390 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
(Breakout),thosethatareintheprocessofbeingformed(Emerging),
orBoth.
(cid:1)
Timeframe:Thisdropdownmenugivesyouaseriesofchoicesoftime
framestosearch,rangingfromjustthepreviousdayallthewayupto
thepastfiveyears.Choosetherangeofdataofinteresttoyou:ifyou
areaveryshort-termtrader,youmightwanttolookforpatternsover
justthepastcoupleofdays;ifyouarealonger-termtraderoraswing
trader,youprobablywanttouseamuchlongertimeframe.
You don’t have to go to any of the other tabs to execute a search.
Whetheryouuseanyoftheothertabsornot,thewaytoexecutethesearch
isthesame:clickeithertheApplybutton(topopulatethePatternsmodule
withtheresultingsymbolsbutremaininthedialogbox)ortheOKbutton
(toexecutethesearch).YoucanalsoclickResettochangealltheparame-
terstotheirdefaultsettingsorclickCanceltogetoutoftheFindPatterns
dialogboxaltogether.
ThePatternstab,showninFigure14.3,letsyouchoosewhichofthe16
availablepatternsyou’dliketoseek.Youcanchooseanywherefrom1to
all16ofthecheckboxes;theSelectAllandClearAllbuttonswillsaveyou
timebycheckingall(oruncheckingall)theboxes.Ifyouarejustlooking
FIGURE 14.3 Thereare16patternsavailableintherecognitionengine.

P1:OTA
c14 JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 10:6 Printer:Yettocome
PatternRecognition 391
FIGURE 14.4 Most of the time, you probably will want to just keep the default
settings.
forinterestingpatterns,youmightaswellleaveallofthemchecked,butif
youarehominginonafavorite(suchastheinverseheadandshoulders),
justcheckthespecificpatternsyouwant.
Thethirdtab,Ratings(Figure14.4),letsyouestablishaminimumand
maximum value for the quality of patterns you are seeking. These figures
rangefrom0(lowestquality)to5(highestquality),andthedefaultis0for
minimumand5formaximumforallsixparameters(whichmeansnothing
isfilteredout).
The six parameters dictate how clean the patterns are in several re-
spects: Overall is the general quality of the pattern; Initial Trend is how
cleanthepriceactionwasleadinguptothepattern;BreakoutStrengthis
how much power the price has when moving out of the pattern; Volume
Increaseishowstrongthevolumeincreasewasduringthebreakout;Uni-
formity is how well shaped the pattern is, compared with the ideal; and
clarityindicatestheconfidencelevelthatthepricewillmovetothetarget.
Generallyspeaking,youshouldjustkeepthesesettingsastheyare,but
ifyou’dliketotightenupthesearchtolookforhigher-qualitypatterns,you
canchangetheMinvalueintheOverallparameterto4(oreven5),which
willgreatlylimittheresults.

P1:OTA
c14 JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 10:6 Printer:Yettocome
392 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
FIGURE 14.5 Includingorexcludingyourwatchlistcontentsfromthepatterns
searchwillsaveyoutime.
Thefourthtab,WatchLists(Figure14.5)isextremelyhelpful,because
itletsyouconstrictasearchtoonlysymbolsfoundwithinorwithoutyour
watchlists.Forinstance,ifyouwantedtoseekpatternsonlyforsymbols
thatyouwerealreadyfollowing,youwouldchoosetheradiobutton“Inany
of my Watch Lists” (you would also check the checkbox titled Limit Pat-
terns).Thisway,onlysymbolsthatyoualreadyfollowwouldbedisplayed
intheresultingpatternsmodule.
Youmayinsteadwanttoseeksymbolsthataren’tinanyofyourwatch
lists.Afterall,youarelookingfornewopportunities,soyoumightwantto
exclude those items you are following already, anyway. In this case, you
wouldclickthe“NotinanyofmyWatchLists”radiobutton.
You might even choose something not quite so stark as total inclu-
sion or exclusion; instead, you might want to include (or exclude) spe-
cific watch lists. In this case, you would click the third radio button,
which also includes a dropdown menu, to seek symbols that are already
in (or not in) the watch lists that you specify by clicking the checkboxes
beneath.
ThefinaltabintheFindPatternsdialogbox,Filters(Figure14.6),can
also save you time by not bothering to show you symbols that you don’t

P1:OTA
c14 JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 10:6 Printer:Yettocome
PatternRecognition 393
FIGURE 14.6 Youshouldrestrictyoursearchtoseekonlystocksyouwouldcon-
sidertradinganyway.
findinterestinginthefirstplace.Itoffersanumberofparameterstorefine
thesearch:
(cid:1)
Options Available: If this box is checked, only stocks for which
optionsareavailablewillbepresented.Thisisparticularlyvaluableif
youareanoptionstrader,butevenifyouarenot,itwillatleastfocus
thesearchonstocksthataretradedwidelyenoughtohaveoptionsin
thefirstplace.
(cid:1)
Average Volume: You can set a Min and Max level for the average
volume. The mainbenefit ofthisparameter istosetaMinamount so
thatyouarenotlookingatthinlytradedstocks.
(cid:1)
Start Price: You can set a Min and Max for the price at the begin-
ningofthepattern,whichisprobablynotthatimportantsinceitisthe
endingpricethatismorecrucial.
(cid:1)
End Price:Ifyouwanttoavoidstocksthatareoutofacertainprice
range(forinstance,stockslessthan$5),youcansetMinandMaxlev-
elsfortheendingpriceofastock.
(cid:1)
Exchange: By default, this setting is All, but if for some reason you
wanttofindstocksthattradeonlyontheNYSE,American,orNASDAQ
stockexchanges,youcanchoosetheappropriatecheckboxeshere.

P1:OTA
c14 JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 10:6 Printer:Yettocome
394 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
Doing a Pattern search is quick, easy, and intuitive. Most of the time,
you’ll probably need to use only a few of the parameters to construct the
searchyouwant.Onceyou’reready,justclickOK.
WORKING WITH THE RESULTS
Toseethesymbolsresultingfromyoursearch,youneedtomakesurethe
Patterns:Symbolsmoduleisturnedon.Figure14.7showsthetworelevant
modulestothischapter,bothatthetopofthelist.Ifthereisacheckmark
nexttoamodulename,thenthatmoduleisavailabletoyou.
AssumingyouusedSymbolsasthebasisforyoursymbolsorting,you
will see a list similar to Figure 14.8. It resembles a watch list, in that you
can scroll up and down the symbols with the arrow keys to view all the
charts,andyoucanright-clickanyofthesymbolstoaddittoawatchlist.
The object of such an exercise is to find interesting trading opportunities
thatwouldnothaveotherwisebeenknowntoyou.
Whenyoubeginlookingatthesymbols,youwillseebluelinesdrawn
onthecharts(inadditiontoanydrawnobjectsofyourown).Theselines
representallthepatternsfoundforthetimeperiodyouhavespecified.In
many cases, you will see multiple patterns on the same stock, such as in
Figure 14.9. If you mouse over any particular line, it will display an infor-
mation box telling you the pattern found, its start and end dates, and its
anticipatedtarget.
Something else interesting and useful happens when you mouse over
apatternline:arectangleappears,showingthetargetzone.Ifthetargetis
bullish,therectangleistintedgreen;ifthetargetisbearish,therectangle
FIGURE 14.7 Thetoptwomodulesinthelistarerelevanttothischapter.

P1:OTA
c14 JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 10:6 Printer:Yettocome
FIGURE 14.8 Thesymbolsresultingfromyourpatternssearchareshowninthis
module.
FIGURE 14.9 IfyoudecidetoShowPatternsonChartSymbolinthedialogbox,
youwillseebluelinesautomaticallydrawnonyourchartsshowinganydiscovered
patterns.
395

P1:OTA
c14 JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 10:6 Printer:Yettocome
396 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
FIGURE 14.10 Therectangleshowstheanticipatedrangeofthepricemove.
istintedred.Therectangleisplacedonthechartappropriateforthetarget
timerange(whichisthewidthoftherectangle)andthetargetprice(which
istheheight).Figure14.10providesabearishexample.
Theimportantthingtokeepinmindwhenyouviewhistoricalpatterns
isthatthecompletionofapatterntypicallyhappenswhenthepricecrosses
beneaththesupportingtrendline(forbearishpatterns)orabovetheresist-
ingtrendline(forbullishpatterns).InFigure14.11,forinstance,thepattern
wascompletedatapriceofabout$14.50whenthestockgappeddownand
pierced itslower trendline. At that time,the prediction system called for
the stock to fall somewhere between $12.1188 and $13.3853 between the
datesof11/20/2009 and2/7/2010. Asyoucansee,thepricedidindeed fall
withinthatdateandpricerange,indicatingasuccessfulprediction.
We’veseenacoupleofbearishexamples,solet’slookatsomebullish
ones.Figure14.12showsabullishprojection(thegreenrectangle),calling
for a stock that was about $34 at the time of the signal to climb above

P1:OTA
c14 JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 10:6 Printer:Yettocome
PatternRecognition 397
FIGURE 14.11 Thisisanexampleofasuccessfulbearishprediction.
$40.Mousingoverthepatternshowsusthenameofthepattern(Triangle),
itsdirection(Bullish),itspredictedpricerange,anditspredictionperiod.
Because some time has passed since the pattern was predicted, we can
seetheresult,whichwasthatthepredictionsucceeded.(Justtobeclear:
some predictions succeed, and some do not; there is no such thing as a
100percentreliablesystem.)
Ofcourse,evenwhenapricemovesintoitspredictionrectangle,there
is no reason it will not keep going the same direction. Figure 14.13 illus-
tratesthatthepricekeptmovingupafterthetimerangeoftherectangle.If
youweremakinguseofthispredictioninarealtrade,youwouldprobably
wanttoseriouslyconsiderclosingthepositiononcethepriceenteredthe
rectangle. After all, anything inside the rectangle is considered a success,
andthereisnoguaranteethatthepricewillmoveintotheupperboundary
of the projected price movement. (Indeed, there is no guarantee that the
rectanglewillbepenetratedbythepricesatall.)
Thepatternsearchengineisn’tmeanttobeasubstituteforyourown
thoughtful analysis; it is intended primarily as a source of ideas that you
mightnothavehadwithoutaccesstothistool.

P1:OTA
c14 JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 10:6 Printer:Yettocome
398 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
FIGURE 14.12 Hereisanexampleofasuccessfulbullishprediction.
PATTERN FAILURES
It’simportanttounderstandthatplentyofpatternsarenotrealized.Stocks
thatareprojectedtohavebullishmovesmightplungeinvalue,andbearish
projections might instead be faced with a soaring stock price. So, again,
theresultsfromapatternssearchshouldbeviewedasnothingmorethan
alistofsymbolstochartandconsideronyourown.

P1:OTA
c14 JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 10:6 Printer:Yettocome
PatternRecognition 399
FIGURE 14.13 There is no reason prices cannot move above their bullish pro-
jectionsorbelowtheirbearishones.
Figure14.14illustratesafailedbullishprediction.Theentiretimespan
has been traversed, but the price didn’t even come close to getting inside
therectangle.
Figure14.15provides aneven moreinterestingexample, because not
only did the price not get into the rectangle but also it subsequently fell
away sharply once the projected time range had passed. This is a good

P1:OTA
c14 JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 10:6 Printer:Yettocome
400 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
FIGURE 14.14 Afailedbullishpriceprojection.
illustrationofwhyyoushouldnotsimplyholdontoapositionbasedona
hoped-foroutcome.Ifyouweretoenterapositionbasedonaprojection,
and the time span passes entirely without the anticipated price being
realized,it’sprobablytimetomoveon(allotheraspectsofthechartbeing
equal).
GRIDS AND EXPORTING
Later,inChapter16,youlearnabouttheGridChartsfeature,butitshould
be noted here that you can right-click on any of the resulting symbols in
the Patterns module and choose to view them in grid mode. This can be

P1:OTA
c14 JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 10:6 Printer:Yettocome
PatternRecognition 401
FIGURE 14.15 The price fell away sharply after the predicted price movement
wasnotrealized.
ahelpfultime-saver,sinceyou’llprobablyjustwanttothumbthroughthe
resulting charts fairly quickly to see if any patterns catch your attention.
Figure14.16providesanexampleofwhataquartetofchartswithpatterns
lookslikeingridmode.
Asmentionedbefore,thebestwaytousetheresultsofapatternsearch
is to examine the symbols yourself. You can do this directly from the
FIGURE 14.16 Youcanviewfourchartsatatimeingridmode.

P1:OTA
c14 JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 10:6 Printer:Yettocome
402 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
FIGURE 14.17 You can export all the symbols with patterns found in them to
yourownwatchlist.
module,oryoucanmoveallthesymbolstoyourownwatchlist.Asshown
inFigure14.17,thePatternsmenuhasafeature,ExportResultstoWatch
List,thatletsyoutakeallthesymbolsyouhavefoundandputtheminthe
watchlistofyourchoice.
After you make this selection, you can either create a newly named
watch list for the symbols or click on an existing watch list to add the
symbolsthere(Figure14.18).
FIGURE 14.18 Choose the destination for the symbols with patterns that have
beenfound.

P1:OTA
c14 JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 10:6 Printer:Yettocome
PatternRecognition 403
Patternrecognitionisgoodforlong-termpatterns.Ifyouwouldrather
focus on very short-term patterns, you might want to use the Candle
Patternsfeatureinstead.
CANDLESTICK PATTERNS
The second style of pattern search available in ProphetCharts is candle-
stick patterns, which you can access at the bottom of the Patterns menu
(Figure14.19).Thenumberofpatternsavailableislargerthanthestandard
patternengine,butthesignalsareforamuchshortertimehorizon.
After you choose Find Candle Patterns, a dialog box like the one in
Figure14.20appears.Thereareseveralparametersonthefirsttab,general,
andtheirfunctionsaresimilartothoseontheGeneraltabinthestandard
FindPatternsbox.Themostimportantisthefirstcheckbox,FindSymbols
WithPatterns.Youalsowillprobablywanttoclickthelastcheckbox,Show
PatternsonChartedSymbol,sinceotherwisetherewillbenothingdifferent
aboutthechart.
As shown in Figure 14.21, there are dozens of candlestick patterns
tracked by the data engine. You can select all of them (with the Se-
lect All button) or handpick certain ones (by clicking Clear All and then
checking only those you want). When you are ready to execute the can-
dlestick search, click OK, and the resulting symbols will very quickly be
displayedintheCandlePatternsmodule.
The patterns themselves span only one or two days, but their ef-
fects can be long-lived. Figure 14.22 shows a bearish engulfing pattern
(highlightedatthetopofthechart),whichprecededaslumpofmorethan
50percentinthepriceoftheequityshown.Aswithregularpatterns,mous-
ingoveracandlestickpatternyieldsthepatternname.Anyofthesymbols
fromtheCandlePatternsmodulewillhaveatleastonepattern(highlighted
FIGURE 14.19 Candlestick patterns can be found using the Candle Patterns
searchfeature.

P1:OTA
c14 JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 10:6 Printer:Yettocome
404 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
FIGURE 14.20 The General tab for candlestick patterns is very similar to the
sametabinthestandardpatternsearchdialogbox.
FIGURE 14.21 All the major candlestick patterns are available in the search
engine.

P1:OTA
c14 JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 10:6 Printer:Yettocome
PatternRecognition 405
FIGURE 14.22 Mouseoverthehighlightedpatterntoseeitsname.
withyellow)butmayhavemanymore,dependingonhowfarintimeyou
executedthesearch.
Figure 14.23 shows a couple of highlighted patterns. The leftmost
one is a Bullish Harami, and the stock climbs about 25 percent after this
patternisidentified.Clearly,thepricedidnotsustainitselfafterthatpoint.
Take note that a key difference between the standard pattern search and

P1:OTA
c14 JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 10:6 Printer:Yettocome
406 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
FIGURE 14.23 There is no time or price projection given with candlestick
patterns.
thecandlestickstyleisthattheformerprovidespriceandtimeprojections,
whereas the latter simply tells you what candlestick pattern has been
found.
Finally,ifyouareusingcandlestickchartsandhavecolorbarsturned
on, you may notice that several color combinations appear. These colors
havethefollowingmeanings:
(cid:1)
White with Black Outline: The stock closed at a higher price than
thecandlestick’sopeningpriceandalsohigherthanthepreviouscan-
dlestick’sclose.
(cid:1)
White with Red Outline:Thestockclosedatahigherpricethanthe
candlestick’sopeningpriceandatapricelowerthanthepreviouscan-
dlestick’sclose.

P1:OTA
c14 JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 10:6 Printer:Yettocome
PatternRecognition 407
(cid:1)
Red:Thestockclosedatalowerpricethanthecandlestick’sopening
priceandalsolowerthanthepreviouscandlestick’sclose.
(cid:1)
Black:Thestockclosedatalowerpricethanthecandlestick’sopening
priceandatapricehigherthanthepreviouscandlestick’sclose.
So there you have it—two powerful tools to find patterns that would
beimpracticaltolocatemanually.Equippedwiththisknowledge,younow
haveatime-savingmethodforlocatingnewtradingopportunities,allbuilt
withinyour charting program. Inthenext chapter, wewillexplore anen-
tirelynewkindofpattern—thosewithintherealmofFibonaccidrawings.

P1:OTA
c15 JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 10:8 Printer:Yettocome
C H A P T E R 15
Fibonacci
Drawings
I
nallthemanyyearsI’vebeenlearningandperformingtechnicalanaly-
sis,thereisnosetofstudieswhichhasinterestedmemorethanthose
ofFibonacci.InProphetCharts,therearefourkindsofFibonaccistud-
ies available: retracements, fans, time zones, and arcs. In this chapter we
willexploreeachofthese,asalways,withactualexamplesfromtherecent
past.Butfirst,letuslearnalittleaboutthenamesakeofthesestudies.
A BRIEF HISTORY LESSON
Leonardo of Pisa lived from 1170 to 1250, and he is regarded as perhaps
thegreatestmathematicianoftheMiddleAges.Hisfather,William,hadthe
nickname “Bonaccio,” which means good-natured, so Leonardo was sub-
sequentlyknownbythenicknameof“Fibonacci”(shortforfiliusBonacci,
orthesonofBonaccio).
WilliamworkedinNorthAfricaatatradingpost,andeventhoughhis
home country ofItalyhad used theRoman numeral system forcenturies,
he came into contact with traders who instead used the Arabic method
of numbers (which is what we use today—1, 2, 3, 4, and so forth, as op-
posedtonumberssuchasXIandMMC).Leonardohelpedhisfatherwith
his work, and in the course of doing so, he became acquainted with and
enamored by the Arabic style of numbering, which seemed far more sen-
sibleandefficientthantheRomanstyle.TheworldowesLeonardoadebt
of gratitude for helping to popularize this system of numbers, since it’s
408

P1:OTA
c15 JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 10:8 Printer:Yettocome
FibonacciDrawings 409
doubtfulanyonetodaywouldappreciatehavingtouseRomannumeralsin
everydaylife.
Another great contribution Leonardo made was with respect to his
writings related to what we today call Fibonacci numbers. This is a se-
quence of numbers which begins like this: 0, 1, 1, 2, 3, 5, 8, 13, 21, 34, 55,
89, 144, 233, 377, 610, 987, 1,597. Each number is the sum of the two pre-
ceding numbers. These numbers have a variety of interesting properties,
including the fact that, as the sequence progresses, each number divided
byitsprecedingnumberapproachesthemathematicalfigurephi(approx-
imately1.618033989),knownasthegoldenratio,whichhasawidevariety
ofexpressionsinnature.
In the world of stock charts, the concepts put forth by Fibonacci are
manifestedindrawnobjects—retracements,timezones,arcs,andfans.We
willexploreeachofthese.Thereareentirevolumeswrittenonthegolden
ratioandFibonaccinumbers,includingtheirrelationshiptonature.Wewill
focusonhowthesemathematicalinsightscanmakeusbetter,moreprof-
itabletraders.
THE FIBONACCI RETRACEMENT
ByfarthemostpopularandeasiesttointerpretFibonaccistudyisthere-
tracement.Theretracementstudyisperformedbydrawingalinebetween
two extreme points on a graph (a significant high point and low point),
which then creates the drawing of a series of horizontal lines set at key
Fibonacciratios(23.6percent,38.2percent,50percent,61.8percent,and
100 percent). These ratios represent a certain proportion of the vertical
distancebetweentheextremehighandlowyouhaveidentified.
Theimpactoftheselevelsonafinancialchartcanbeprofound,since
they represent significant areas of support and resistance. In many in-
stances,youwillseeastockpricebounceofftheselinesuntilitpenetrates
one of them, only tobehave thesame way withthe next line. The predic-
tivepowerofretracementsisthatyoucananticipatelevelsofsupportand
resistancewherepriceswilltendtocling.
To draw a retracement, you need to use the Fibonacci retracement
toolinthetoolbar.AllfourFibonaccitoolsarelocatedattherightsideof
thetoolbar(Figure15.1).Theyare,inorder,theRetracement,TimeZones,
Arcs, and Fans. To draw a Fibonacci retracement study on a chart, you
wouldfollowthesesteps:
1. ClickontheRetracementiconinthetoolbar.Yourcursorwillchange
intocrosshairs.

P1:OTA
c15 JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 10:8 Printer:Yettocome
410 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
FIGURE 15.1 ThefourFibonaccitoolsarelocatedattherightsideofthetoolbar:
Retracement,TimeZones,Arcs,andFans.
2. Findanextremetroughorpeakinthechartandclickonittoestablish
oneendofthereferencelineyouaregoingtouse.
3. Dragthemouse.Asyoudo,theretracementlineswillautomaticallybe
displayed.Onceyouhavefoundtheotherextremeforyourreference
line,clickthemouseagain.
It should be stated early on that not all charts are Fibonacci-friendly.
Some charts perform better with Fibonacci studies than others. Luck-
ily, there is a fairly easy way to determine whether a stock is Fibonacci-
friendly,andthatistolaydownthestudyandexaminewhetherpastprice
behaviorseemstocomplywiththestudy.Ifitdoes,chancesarethatitwill
continuetodoso.
Tomakethisassessment,it’svaluabletounderstandthereferenceline
anditsrelationshiptotimeonthechart.Thereferencelineisthelinedrawn
betweentwoextremes.Whicheverofthosetwopointsismorerecentcre-
ates a division between the before and after of the retracement. For in-
stance,ifyoudrewalinefromJanuary1998toMarch2001,thenthepoint
at March 2001 is the more recent one, and the part of the chart prior to
March2001wouldbebeforethestudyandthepartafterMarch2001would
beafterthestudy.
Thereasonthisisimportanttonoteisthatithelpsestablishhowgood
the predictive power of the study is for that particular stock. The before
timeisusefulonlyinsofarasdetermininghowFibonacci-friendlythestock
is,becausethestudycouldnothavebeenlaiddowninthistimeperiod.In
otherwords,becausetheentirereferencelinecouldnothavebeendrawn
until March 2001 had taken place, there would have been no Fibonacci
studyinexistenceuntilthatdate,whichmeansthatitcouldnothavebeen
usedasaguideintrading.
AfterMarch2001,however,thestudycouldhavebeenused,andthat
timeperiodisvalidtoconsiderhowstrongapredictorthestudyhadbeen.
Study Figure 15.2, for instance. The reference line begins in autumn 1998
andendsinspring2004.Athickverticallinehasbeendrawnonthischart
todistinguishtheareabeforethestudy(leftoftheline)andafterthestudy
(rightoftheline).

P1:OTA
c15 JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 10:8 Printer:Yettocome
FibonacciDrawings 411
FIGURE 15.2 Theareashighlightedwithrectanglesshowjustsomeofthemany
instanceswherethepricepausesorreversesbasedontheretracementlevel.
Rounded rectangles have been drawn on top of the chart to show ar-
eas where prices seem to cling to retracement levels. There are six clear
instances before the study where the prices did this, which indicates this
is a very Fibonacci-friendly chart. The eight highlighted areas to the right
ofthelineconfirmthatthepredictivepowerofthisstudyforthisstockis,
asexpected,quitestrong.Theconclusionisthat,forthisparticularstock,
thisretracementstudyhasalotofpower,anditwouldbeusefultoleave
this study on the chart to anticipate future reversal points in the price
action.
Unliketheotherdrawnobjects,whichtendtobeasingle,simpleline,
theFibonaccistudiesdrawrelativelycomplexobjects.Inthecaseofare-
tracement, there are a number of pieces to the completed object. There
isthereferenceline,whichyoudrawfromoneextremetoanother.There
are the horizontal retracement lines, each of which can be the thickness
and pattern of your choice. And there are the price and percentage refer-
encesthataccompanyeachofthelinessoyoucanseewhatpricevalueand
percentagevalueeachlinehas.Youcancontroleachoftheseelementsto
achievetheappearanceyouwant.

P1:OTA
c15 JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 10:8 Printer:Yettocome
412 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
FIGURE 15.3 There are two extremes to drawing a retracement, and a dotted
linereferencesthedistancebetweenthesetwopoints.
Figure15.3showsthelowestextremeofaFibonacciretracement.You
canseethepercentage(0.0percent),thedollarpriceatthatlevel($1.65),
thehorizontallinethatconstitutesthe0percentlevel,andthedottedref-
erenceline,whichextendsdiagonally.
Whether you want to see the reference line is up to you and is
controlledbytheretracementpreferencesdialogbox.Figure15.4showsa
stockwitharetracementdrawnandthereferencelinevisible.Therounded
rectangles (which are drawn here for illustrative purposes and are not
normally displayed in the charting program) highlight the various turning
points in price that correspond to the retracement levels. Follow with
your eye the entire price move for this graph, and notice how powerful
theretracementlevelsare.Youcanappreciatewhatagoodpredictivetool
thiscanbeifyoulookatalltheturningandpausingpointsthatfollowthe
referenceline.
Figure15.5explicitlyshowsthemotionfromleveltolevelwithaseries
of rectangles and arrows. Obviously, the price doesn’t move in a straight
linefromoneleveltoanother.Whatitdoesdo,though,is(1)bounceoff,
(2)clingto,or(3)pierceeachlevel.Ifyouhaveapositioninastock,itpays
tocarefullywatchachartasitnearsaretracementlevel.Especiallystrong
(orweak,ifmovingdownward)stockswillpiercetheretracementwithout
hesitation. Otherwise, theretracement willrepresent awallofsupport or
resistancetothepriceaction,eitherrepellingthepriceoratleaststalling
itatthatlevel.

P1:OTA
c15 JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 10:8 Printer:Yettocome
FibonacciDrawings 413
FIGURE 15.4 This retracement is shown with a reference line. You can choose
whetheryouwanttheretracementlinetobedisplayedforanydrawing.
There are many different ways to apply the predictive power of the
Fibonacciretracement.Let’smentallyreturntotheautumnof2003,atime
when all the U.S. markets had suffered a severe downturn. Texas Instru-
ments (symbol TXN) was especially hard-hit, losing nearly 90 percent of
itsvalue.
Let us further suppose you felt the selling was done with, and you
wanted to take a large, long position in TXN. You know where you want
tosetyourstopprice—that’seasy—youwillsetitjustbeneaththeall-time
lowsetinOctober.Buthowlongdoyouholdontotheposition?Whendo
youtakeprofitsoffthetable?
Thatquestionisvirtuallyimpossibletoanswerunlessyoutellyourself
tobuyandholdinperpetuity.AFibonacciretracement,however,provesto
beinvaluableinthisdecision.AsFigure15.6shows,thestockseemstobe
Fibonacci-friendly. During the stock’s entire descent, it seems to bounce
off or cling to the various retracement levels. During its last gasp before
thefinalfall,ithangsontothe23.6percentlevelbeforefinallysuccumbing
andbottomingoutat$13.Letussupposeyouboughtthestockat$15.
Asaskilledchartist,youwouldknowtotakeprofitsoffthetable—at
least some of them—at around $33 per share, since that is the level that

P1:OTA
c15 JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 10:8 Printer:Yettocome
414 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
FIGURE 15.5 These arrows help illustrate how the price bounces from level to
level,bothbeforeandafterthereferenceline.
represents major resistance to the price moving higher. In about a year’s
time, the stock pushed up to that level, and sure enough, it started to fall
again.Itrepeatedthisbehavioragainandagainandagain.Bytakingprofits
at the appropriate time, you would have bagged a very healthy gain and
beenabletoinvestyourmoneyelsewhere(or,ifyouwereparticularlycon-
fident,perhapsevenshortTXNasitbouncedofftheretracement).
The more obedient the price action is with respect to the Fibonacci
retracement levels, the more likely it is that these lines will have power
overfuturepriceaction.From1986to1991,thepricesbouncedveryfirmly
off the various retracement levels (Figure 15.7), and having done so, the
priceslikewisecontinuedtocomplywiththeseretracementsaftertheter-
minationofthereferenceline.

P1:OTA
c15 JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 10:8 Printer:Yettocome
FibonacciDrawings 415
FIGURE 15.6 Afteraseveredeclineinastock,theretracementlevelrepresents
aformidableareaofresistance.
Buthereistheremarkablething—andyoumaywanttoreadthissev-
eral times for it to fully sink in—the reference line didn’t even exist until
1991. In other words, the market was obviously blind to these Fibonacci
levels in 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, and most of 1991. Once the stock
hadpeakedandclearlywasheadingsouth,apersoncouldlaydownapat-
ternlikethisonlytodiscoveratthattimethealmosteeriebehaviorofthe
prices relative to the Fibonacci retracement that was only now just laid
down. This provides a very clear affirmation that these levels should be
respectedonagoing-forwardbasiswiththisstock.
Ifyouholdthemousecursoroveranyelementofaretracement,more
informationaboutthatelementwillbedisplayed.Forinstance,Figure15.8
showstheresultofmousingoverthe23.6percentretracementlevel.Abox
appears that displays the date and value at the start of the reference line,
thedateandvalueattheendofthereferenceline,andthepercentageand
dollarvalueoftheparticularretracementbeingmousedover.
BecausetheFibonacciretracementisarelativelycomplexdrawnob-
ject,therearemanyaspectsofityoucancontrol.Therearetwowaystoin-
voketheCustomizeFibonacciRetracementsdialogbox(Figure15.9):you
canright-clickonaretracementandselectCustomizeFibonacciRetrace-
ments from the pop-up menu, or you can hold down your mouse button

P1:OTA
c15 JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 10:8 Printer:Yettocome
416 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
FIGURE 15.7 Ifapriceseemstobounceoffretracementlevelsconsistentlybe-
fore the reference line, the odds are much stronger it will do so as well after the
referenceline.
whilepointingattheretracementtoolinthetoolbartogetthesameselec-
tion.Thisdialogboxletsyoucontroltheseaspectsoftheretracement:
Color:ControlsthecoloroftheentireFibonaccidrawing.
Opacity:Controlsthetransparencyoftheretracement,rangingfrom0
(invisible)to1(solid).
FIGURE 15.8 Mousingoveranyretracementlevelwillrevealinformationabout
thatlevelandtheentiredrawnobject.

P1:OTA
c15 JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 10:8 Printer:Yettocome
FibonacciDrawings 417
FIGURE 15.9 The wide variety of choices in the Customize Fibonacci Retrace-
mentsdialogboxcontrolitsappearanceandsettings.
Showcheckboxes:Checkingeachofthesewillmakeparticularretrace-
mentlevelsdisplay.Atfirst,allofthemarechecked.Youcanturn
anylevelsonoroffwiththesecheckboxes.
Value entry boxes:Thesearethepercentagevaluesusedtolaydown
theretracements.Itisveryunlikelyyouwillwanttochangethese.
Line Style dropdowns: You can choose from three line styles: nor-
mal, bold, and dotted. If you want to emphasize or de-emphasize
any particular level, you may want to change the kind of line
displayed.
Show Value checkboxes: Thiscontrolswhichoftheretracementlines
will have their percentage value displayed. These are all on by

P1:OTA
c15 JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 10:8 Printer:Yettocome
418 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
default. You can simplify the drawing by turning off any of these
that you want, although knowing the percentage levels being dis-
playedisusuallyhelpful.
Show Reference Line checkbox:Thelinethatconnectsthetwopoints
youclickasextremesisdisplayed bydefault.Ifyouwanttohide
thisline,youcanturnthischeckboxoff.
ShowPricecheckbox:Ifyouwantthedollarvalueofeachretracement
level displayed, this checkbox should be checked. Normally you
getthepercentagevalueshownforeachlineforwhichShowValue
ischecked.Ifyouwantthedollarvalueaswell,whichcanbehelp-
fulwhensettingastopprice,youshouldcheckthis,too.
Resetbutton:Clickingthisresetsallthevaluesandcheckboxestotheir
defaultcondition.
Figure 15.10 shows a Fibonacci retracement with all the normal
settings, except the Show Value checkboxes are all off and the Show
Reference Line has been unchecked. This makes for a clean, simple
look, although some of the key information is being suppressed. You can
still access numeric data about any retracement level by mousing over
FIGURE 15.10 AsampleFibonacciretracementdrawnonastockchart.

P1:OTA
c15 JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 10:8 Printer:Yettocome
FibonacciDrawings 419
FIGURE 15.11 Astockwillnotnecessarilyfollowaretracementpathalltheway
backdown,butitmaystillpauseatcertainlevelsbeforereversingdirection.
any particular line of interest to you. (As before, the rounded rectangles
highlightingthereversalandresistancepointsaredrawnhereforemphasis
andarenotnormallydisplayedinthechartingprogram.)
It is impossible to know, of course, when a stock has reached a
long-term peak or trough. Just because you are able to draw a good
Fibonacci retracement that seems to line up well with prior price action
doesn’t mean a major reversal is in the works. What the lines do tell you,
however,isthatifthestockdoesstartmovingfirmlyeitherupordown,its
nextnaturalstoppingpoint(eithertopauseorreverse)isgoingtobethe
nextFibonaccilevel.
TakeFigure15.11asanexample.Theverytoplinerepresentstheter-
mination point of the reference line. A person deciding to sell this stock
short around this point would need to pay close attention to the retrace-
ment levels beneath the current price. In this instance, the price moved
downtworetracementlevelsbeforereversingandmovinghigher.Atrader
short this stock would want to be especially watchful when the stock
reachedanyretracementlevel,becauseeachofthemrepresentsapotential
reversalpoint,aswasthecasehere.

P1:OTA
c15 JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 10:8 Printer:Yettocome
420 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
FIGURE 15.12 A retracement will not indicate how long a price will remain at
anygivenlevel,butitprovidesclearboundariesofsupportandresistanceinboth
directions.
Thelongerandmoresubstantialapriorpricemove,thelongeritwill
probablytakepricestomovethroughtheretracementlevelsintheoppo-
sitedirection.Figure15.12showsthestockchartforDukeEnergy,andthe
reference line is displayed. Notice the price action that took place to the
right of the reference line. It took years, but the price pushed higher and
higherthroughthevariousretracementlevels.
First the price reached the 23.6 percent level, then it backed off. The
next time, it pierced this level, almost reaching the 38.2 percent level, at
whichtimeiteasedbacktothe23.6percentlevel(thistimeassupportin-
steadofresistance).Itthenpushedthroughthe38.2percentleveltopause
atthe50percentlevel,andsoforth.Youcanfollowthesteadyprogression
onthechart,butitisclearwhataninvaluableperspectivetheretracement
levelswouldgivetoapersontradingthisstock.Withoutit,atraderises-
sentiallyflyingblind.
Fairchild Semiconductor (Figure 15.13) provides another good exam-
pleofusingretracementlevelsasanticipatedreversalpoints.Afteravery
broaddownwardmovefrom2000to2002,thestockbounceswithinavery
widerange.Thelowerthreeretracementlevels,however,providedexcel-
lentindicationsastothereversalpointsduringthosepostcrashgyrations.

P1:OTA
c15 JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 10:8 Printer:Yettocome
FibonacciDrawings 421
FIGURE 15.13 Astockdoesnotnecessarilymakeabroaddownmoveandthena
correlatingbroadupmove.Itmayinsteadremainrange-boundamongtheFibonacci
levels.
Asalways,drawnobjectscanbeusedincombination.Ifmorethanone
object suggests a reversal point, that only strengthens the argument that
the price will pause or reverse at that level. Healthnet (Figure 15.14) has
botharetracementandatrendlinedrawn.Therearefourrectanglesdrawn
on top of the chart. Reading from left to right: the first rectangle shows
thepricebouncingoffthesupportingtrendlineaswellastheretracement
level.Oncethestockbreaksbeneaththetrendline,thenextstoppingpoint
istwomoreretracementlevelsdown.
At this point, the price action becomes very interesting, because a
trader would want to anticipate how far the stock is going to retrace up-
wardafteritsrecentplunge.ThetrendlineandFibonacciretracement,act-
inginconcert,provideanexcellentclue.Thethirdrectangleshowshowthe
priceclungtightlytotheretracementline,nevergettinghigherthanthefor-
mersupportingtrendline(whichhaschangedrolesandisnowresistance).
Asthestockweakensagain,itfallstothenextretracementlevelbeneath.
Used properly, well-drawn retracements are akin to getting tomor-
row’snewspapertoday:youhaveaverystrongpredictorastowhatprice
levelwillbereachednext.

P1:OTA
c15 JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 10:8 Printer:Yettocome
422 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
FIGURE 15.14 Thischarthastwohelpfuldrawnobjects:theretracementlevels
andatrendline,whichprovidesclearresistancewhenthepricetriestomoveupward
again.
One instance where the Fibonacci retracement is especially useful is
afterastockhasmadeamajormove,eitherupordown.Afteralargemove-
mentwithalotofvolatility,tradersareextremelyuncertainastowherethe
nextsupportorresistancelevelisgoingtobe.
Take yourselfbacktotheautumnof2002.AlltheU.S.stockindexes,
particularlytheNASDAQ,hadsufferedabrutalbearmarket.TheNASDAQ
100ETF,betterknownastheQQQ(orcubes)hadlostabout80percentof
its value. Suppose you believed the selling was overdone and you took a
majorlongpositioninthissecurity.(Takenotethateventhoughthefinan-
cialinstrumentisknownastheQQQ,thesymbolisQQQQ.)
The QQQ begins to move higher, producing a profit for you. But how
long do you hold on? Unless your intent is to hold it forever, you should
probablytrytooptimizeyourholdingperiodsothatyougetoutwhenthe
recovery seems to have been fully realized. In this instance, the retrace-
ment is once again invaluable. Figure 15.15 shows the retracement levels
placed on top of the QQQQ graph. The stock bottomed out at about $20,
andthefirstretracementlevelisatabout$43,amorethan100percentgain.

P1:OTA
c15 JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 10:8 Printer:Yettocome
FibonacciDrawings 423
FIGURE 15.15 After the gigantic slide of QQQ, which represents the NASDAQ
100stocks,virtuallynostudyexcepttheFibonacciretracementcouldhaveprovided
agoodpredictionastohowhighQQQwouldbeabletoclimbback.
Ittookthreeyearstogetthere,butasthearrowindicates,theQQQcame
withinpenniesoftheretracementpoint,atwhichtimeiteasedaway.
You may have noticed in the dialog box that the Fibonacci retrace-
mentsdonotendat100percent.Theycangoontohigherratiolevels,such
as161.8percent,261.8percent,andhigher.Sonotonlycantheseretrace-
ment levels guide you in terms of price action between the two extremes
ofthereferencelinebutalsotheycangiveyouguidanceastohowhighor
lowapricemaymoveoutsidethoseextremes.
The stock graph shown in Figure 15.16 provides a fitting example of
this.Thegraphencompassesthetimerange1985to2006,aperiodofmore
than two decades. The retracement was drawn based on points in 1985
(the low) and 1991 (the high). From 1987 through 1999, there are many
instances—justafewofwhicharehighlighted—wheretheretracementlev-
elshavebeenobeyed.
What’smoreinterestingiswhathappenswhenthepricebreaksabove
the100percentlevel.Therearethreetimeswhenthestockpausedandcon-
solidated,andineachofthosethreeinstances,itmatchedtheretracement

P1:OTA
c15 JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 10:8 Printer:Yettocome
424 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
FIGURE 15.16 Fibonaccilevelsbeyond100percentcanbeaninvaluablepredic-
tivetool,asillustratedhere.
level perfectly. Thus, the retracements are not only able to provide inter-
polationbetweentwoextremesbutalsoabletoextrapolatetopricelevels
thathaven’tevenbeenexperiencedbyastockyet.Thisobviouslydoubles
thepowerandvalueofawell-placedFibonacciretracementobject.
Figure 15.17 is a powerful illustration of Fibonacci retracements, as
wellasintermarketanalysis.WhatisshownistheratiobetweentheNew
Zealandcurrency(thekiwi)andtheU.S.dollar.Theretracementlevelsare
establishedbasedontheextremesof2001and2008,withimportanthitsto
thoselevelshighlightedinyellow.
During the financial crisis of 2008–2009, a trader might have put this
charttogooduseintryingtofindagoodentrypointtogolong.Although
NZD/USDfellveryhard,itfinallyfoundstabilizationinearlyMarch2009at
the23.6percentretracementlevel,almosttothedaythattheequitymarket
bottomed.
The retailer Nordstrom has a very Fibonacci-friendly stock chart, il-
lustrated in Figure 15.18. Based on the extreme high (in 2007) and low
(in2008),theretracementsprovidedmultipleopportunitiesforatraderto
profit from both long and short positions, as there was a strong tendency
tobounceofftheselevelsinbothdirections.

P1:OTA
c15 JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 10:8 Printer:Yettocome
FibonacciDrawings 425
FIGURE 15.17 ThecurrencychartNZD/USDprovidedapowerfulindicationthat
theequitymarkethadbottomedinearlyMarch2009.
When price levels approach multiple points of support or resistance
that are in agreement, those levels should be heeded more than if sim-
ply one tool was being used. In Figure 15.19, the NASDAQ Composite
($COMPQ) is approaching both the 38.2 percent Fibonacci retracement
andtheundersideofabrokentrendlinethatwasstartedalmost20years
earlier.Theresolutionofthisresistancewillbehistorylongafterthepubli-
cationofthisbook,butasofthischart’scapture,priceswillhavedifficulty
pushingeasilypastthoselevels.
FIBONACCI FANS
BynowitshouldbeclearhowtodrawandusetheFibonacciretracement.
Wenowturnourattentiontoanequallyusefultool,theFibonaccifan.The

P1:OTA
c15 JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 10:8 Printer:Yettocome
426 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
FIGURE 15.18 Nordstrom’s price action is well-bounded between the retrace-
mentlevels.
application and interpretation of fans is very similar to retracements. As
witharetracement,youneedtoidentifyalowandahighextremetoplace
your reference line, at which point the fans will be automatically placed
foryou.Aswithretracement,thefanlinesindicateimportantsupport,re-
sistance,andconsolidationpointsforpriceaction.
Except for the fact that fan lines are at an angle, the interpretation
of these lines is very similar to the application of retracements. Examine

P1:OTA
c15 JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 10:8 Printer:Yettocome
FibonacciDrawings 427
FIGURE 15.19 Boththefailedtrendlineandtheretracementlevelssuggestthe
NASDAQCompositefacesdifficultyatpresentprices.
thechartforHansenNatural(symbolHANS)inFigure15.20.Todrawthis
Fibonaccifan,auserwould:
1. ChoosetheFibonaccifantoolfromthetoolbar.
2. Draw a line from the low on February 12, 2003, at 40.62 cents all the
way up to the extreme high of $52.72 on July 6, 2006 (an amazing
130-foldincreaseinpriceinjustoverthreeyears).
3. Releasethemouse,thusdisplayingtheFibonaccifans.
The three arrows on the chart indicate where the price reversed off
the highest fan line. This is a good confirmation of the Fibonacci-friendly
natureofthisstockwithrespecttothesefanlines.Nowsupposeyouhad
sold this stock short in July as it started to ease. As sensational a run-up
as this stock has had, it’s obviously very strong and has no clear areas of
support.Thequestionis:whendoyoutakeprofits?

P1:OTA
c15 JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 10:8 Printer:Yettocome
428 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
FIGURE 15.20 TheseFibonaccifansaredrawnfromoneextremetoanotheron
thesymbolHANS.Thearrowsindicatepointswherethepricetouchedthetopofthe
highestfanline,atwhichpointitreversedeachtime.
On August 7, 2006, HANS started to plunge on record volume. If you
ownedputsonthisstockorhadashortposition,youwouldbeinthehappy
predicamentofwonderingwhentotakeprofits.Fibonaccifanswouldhave
yieldedareadyanswer:becausethestockopenedbeneathoneofthefan
lines,thatlevelofsupportwasclearlyalreadytakenout.Thenextfanline
down, therefore, would be the next level of support. As Figure 15.21 il-
lustrates, this level offered formidable support for HANS in spite of the
high-volume plunge in price. Traders covering their positions in this area
wouldhavehadgoodtiming,andthoseempoweredwiththeinsightofthe
Fibonaccifanprobablywouldhavedoneso.
AlthoughthetradingpublicisobviouslynotawareofwhereFibonacci
fan lines are placed, there is still a remarkable tendency on the part
of prices to either cling to a certain fan line or be plainly bounded be-
tween two lines, bouncing between the two of them. This applies even
when fan lines span years, or even decades, which makes them posi-
tively remarkable, particularly considering they are sloped (as opposed
tohorizontalzonesofsupportandresistance,whichareeasiertoexplain
away).

P1:OTA
c15 JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 10:8 Printer:Yettocome
FibonacciDrawings 429
FIGURE 15.21 WhenHANSgothammeredafteritsearningsannouncement,the
fanlineprovidedanaturalstoppingpointduringtheplunge.
A number of the following examples are drawn from extremely large
Fibonaccifansthatspanmanydecades.ThechartshowninFigure15.22is
justaportionoftheDowJonesIndustrialAverageonwhicha70-year-old
fan has been drawn. The rectangle has been drawn to highlight how the
priceactionnotonlyisboundedbytwofanlinesbutalso,formanyyears,
tends to cling to one of the lines. This particular section is following the
dramatic crash of 1987. In spite of all the chaos and tumult surrounding
thatcrash,thepricescontinuetheirorderlymotionbetweenandalongthe
fanlines.
Oneshouldpausetoconsiderhowsimplyremarkablethisis.Thefan
lines were drawn from the depths of the Great Depression to the peak of
theInternetbubble(1932to2000).Themarkethadnoawareness—atleast
none of which it was conscious—of these boundaries. Over the decades,
billionsuponbillionsofindividualdecisionsaremadethatmovethisindex
upanddowneveryday.Andinspiteofallofthesevariables,whichnumber
on an astronomical scale, the index performs in a stunningly orderly and
systematicfashion.
Lookingatanother,broaderindex—theS&P500—wecanseesimilar
fascinating phenomena (Figure 15.23). The arrows show how the highest

P1:OTA
c15 JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 10:8 Printer:Yettocome
430 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
FIGURE 15.22 Prices will often become bound between the support and resis-
tanceprovidedbyfanlines.
andlowestfanlinesconstrictthepricemovement.Keepinmindthegraph
is showing a period of more than 70 years. The price reverses on various
fan lines in many instances, and the two rectangles that are drawn here
highlighttwomultidecadeyearswhenthepriceswereboundbetweentwo
fanlines.
Lookingataspecificportionofthisindex(from1954to1985),wecan
see a neat, tidy progression of tilted rectangles (Figure 15.24). The rect-
angles move slightly down each time, since this period of market history
included several vicious bear markets, including the infamous 1973–1974
bearmarket.Evenwhenpricesmadeextrememoves,pushingoutsidethe
bounds of the rectangle, the fan lines still provided support against the
pricemovinganylower.
Experimenting with Fibonacci studies, particularly the fans, can be a
mesmerizingexperiencebecausetheyseemtowieldanalmostmysterious
power over the markets. Figure 15.25 shows a close-up of the Dow Jones
IndustrialAveragefrom1988to1994,whichincludestheminicrashof1989.
This close-up view shows the remarkable tendency, again and again, for

P1:OTA
c15 JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 10:8 Printer:Yettocome
FibonacciDrawings 431
FIGURE 15.23 Thearrowshereindicateextremelevelsofsupportandresistance
duringthismultidecademovementoftheS&P500,withtherectanglesshowingjust
acoupleoftheboundedareas.
FIGURE 15.24 Here we can see a neat and tidy progression of rectangles that
areboundedbythefanlines.

P1:OTA
c15 JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 10:8 Printer:Yettocome
432 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
FIGURE 15.25 Aclose-upoftheDowJonesIndustrialAverageshowstheremark-
able ability of the fan lines to dictate where resistance will be, even when it was
predicteddecadesinthepast.
thepricetomoveupwardtowardandthenmoveawayfromthehigherfan
line.Duringtheminicrash,thepricecollapsewasstoppedshortbythefan
linebeneathit.
TheChinaindex,symbol$CZH,hadremarkablebehaviorwithrespect
toitsfanlines(Figure15.26).Thereareeightspecificinstanceshighlighted
inthechartwherethepricebouncedalmostperfectlyoffthefanline.Al-
though prices eventually broke free of this confinement, as they always
will, for a while this drawing provided remarkable insight into what was
mostlikelytohappennextwiththisindex.
ThefanlinesforAmericanElectricPower(AEP),withpointsbetween
October10,2002,andApril5,2007,alsoprovidedpotentlevelsofsupport
and resistance as the equity generally turned downward for several years
(Figure15.27).
Emerson Electric’s (EMR) fan lines were established from much
longer-range data points, beginning at October 4, 1974, and ending De-
cember 4, 2007 (Figure 15.28). We see again that selling short when the
price was at the upper range of fan lines and going long when the price

P1:OTA
c15 JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 10:8 Printer:Yettocome
FibonacciDrawings 433
FIGURE 15.26 TheChinesestockmarkethadremarkablebehaviorwithrespect
totheFibonaccifanlines.
FIGURE 15.27 SymbolAEPofferedgoodlongandshortopportunitiesforthose
watchingitsfanlines.

P1:OTA
c15 JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 10:8 Printer:Yettocome
434 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
FIGURE 15.28 The fan lines shown here were based on two points that were
morethan23yearsapart.
was at the bottom range of a fan line pair would have been repeatedly
profitable.
Bytheirnature,thespacebetweenfanlinesgetslarger,asillustrated
inFigure15.29,whichisforAppleComputer(AAPL).Althoughpricesare
obviouslyabletoescapetherangesdefinedbythepairsoflineseventually,
theserangesmakehelpfultradingguideposts.Takenoteinparticularofthe
earlierpartofthechart,whichshowshowwell-boundedthepriceswere.
Intherightmostpartofthefanlines,therangeismuchwider,whichwas
appropriate,givenApple’ssteadyrisefromtheupper$70stoover$200.
Certainly the most import foreign exchange graph a trader wants to
monitor is the EUR/USD (Figure 15.30), measuring the ratio of the euro
totheU.S.dollar.Fibonaccifanshaveshownthemselvestobeinstructive
on this instrument, which tends to have a positive correlation with U.S.
equities. During 2008’s financial crisis, the EUR/USD plunged to its 61.8
percent fan line and seemed to firm up there. This was a good indication
thatequitieswereturningsafer.Althoughtheultimatelowinsomeindexes
tookplacefourmonthslater,November2008wouldhavebeenanexcellent
medium-termentrypointforequities,assuggestedbytheEUR/USD’srela-
tionshiptoitsfanlines.

P1:OTA
c15 JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 10:8 Printer:Yettocome
FIGURE 15.29 AppleComputer’sfanlineswerehelpfulinprovidinglikelyranges
forpricemovement.
FIGURE 15.30 The EUR/USD was in a free fall from July to November 2008, at
whichtimeitstabilizedatits61.8percentfanline.Thisprovedtobeagoodturning
pointforsomemajorstockindexes.
435

P1:OTA
c15 JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 10:8 Printer:Yettocome
436 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
FIGURE 15.31 Fibonaccifanscanbecustomizedforcolor,opacity,whethercer-
tainlinesareshown,andmanyotherparameters.
The dialog box to customize Fibonacci fans is virtually identical to,
although somewhat simpler than, the one for retracements. Because the
lines are diagonal, there is no need to display a price level (since it is
changing constantly). Figure 15.31 shows all the adjustments available in
the dialog box, which can be accessed either by right-clicking a fan ob-
jectandchoosingCustomizeFibonacciorbyselectingthesamechoiceby
clickingandholdingdownthemousebuttonontopoftheFibonacciFans
button.
One of the most extraordinary charts in this entire book is shown
in Figure 15.32. What is shown is quite simple: the Dow Jones Industrial
Averagefrom1900to2006andtwoFibonaccifans.Thefirstfanisdrawn
between the low in 1903 (the Rich Man’s Panic) and the peak in 1929
(the Roaring Twenties). The second fan is drawn between the low in the

P1:OTA
c15 JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 10:8 Printer:Yettocome
FibonacciDrawings 437
FIGURE 15.32 The point marked 1 is where these two fans intersected, which
correspondedtoaperfectpredictionofthelowofthe1973–1974bearmarket.Point
2 was the beginning of the gigantic 1980s and 1990s bull market. And point 3,
amazingly,wastheverytopofthebullmarket,predictedbyaFibonaccifannearly
acenturyold.
summerof1932(theGreatDepression)andthepeakin2000(theInternet
bubble).
Just as combining different kinds of drawn objects can yield new in-
sights, combining multiple instances of the same object (using different
timeframes)candothesame.Thereasonisthatthemultipleobjectscan
agreewithoneanother,emphasizingsimilarlevelsofsupportorresistance,
and their intersections can be indicative of major turning points in the
market.
In the graph there are three particular points of interest, labeled 1,
2, and 3. Point 1 marks where the two lower fan lines cross. This is an
extremelyimportantpointinthischart,becauseitistheonlyplacethetwo
lower fans cross. The location that they cross is December 1974, which,
remarkably,istheexactbottomofthetremendous1973–1974bearmarket
(whichbottomedonDecember9,1974).
Thisispositivelyremarkable.Afanthatwasstartedinthesameyear
thatOrvilleandWilburWrightflewatKittyHawkandafanthatwasstarted

P1:OTA
c15 JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 10:8 Printer:Yettocome
438 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
when Herbert Hoover was still in office coincided with one of the most
pivotalpointsinthecentury’smarkethistory,decadeslater.
Point2isthelasttimethatthepricetouchedthelowerfanline.Italso
turnsouttobetheexactpointwherethetremendoussecularbullmarket
ofthe1980sand1990sbegan.
Finally, point 3 is the last time the price touched the upper fan and,
amazingly,markedtheexactpeakofthestockmarket.Attheriskofdriving
thepointtooheavily,itshouldbenotedthatthispeakwaspredictedbya
fanthatwascommenced97yearsearlier.Andunlikesomeotherinstances,
this fan was in place since 1929. Therefore, a person watching the broad
stock market would have had a very useful insight as to where the peak
mightbe.
FIBONACCI ARCS
TheothertwoFibonaccistudies,arcsandtimezones,warrantasomewhat
briefer look, principally because the instances when they provide strong
predictivepowerarelesscommon.Theyarestilluseful,however,particu-
larly in conjunction with other Fibonacci studies. Using fans and arcs to-
gether,forinstance,isacommontechnique.
Aswithretracementsandfans,thearcsaredrawnbyclickingontwo
points(anextremelowandextremehigh),thuscreatingareferenceline.
Insteadofstraightlinesbasedonthesepoints,concentriccirclesaredrawn
using the Fibonacci ratios, basing the distance on the difference between
thetwoextremepoints.
Figure15.33showsthelinebeingdrawnfromtheautumnof1998(low)
tothewinterof2000(high).Threearcsaredrawnautomatically,suggest-
ingpossiblesupportandresistancelevels.Thecircledareas(whichdonot
appearonthechartbutareshownhereforclarity)illustratethepricebe-
haviorproximaltothesearcs.
In the case of Figure 15.33, a trader would have had helpful infor-
mation about how high the stock might be going before reversing direc-
tion.Inthreeinstancesafterthemajortumblethestocktookin2001,the
stock pushed up to the retracement arc, either pausing or reversing after
touchingit.
Thedialogboxforthearcsisidenticaltotheoneforthefans.Figure
15.34showsthatonlythreelevelshavebeenselectedfordisplay,whichis
whatwasusedforFigure15.33.Thismakesacleaner,easier-to-readchart.
TheDowJonesIndustrialAverageisshowninFigure15.35witharcs
based on points between October 11, 2007, and March 6, 2009. Tinted in
yellowaretheareaswherepricesclungtothearcs,indicatingsupport(on
thewaydown)orresistance(onthewayup).

P1:OTA
c15 JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 10:8 Printer:Yettocome
FibonacciDrawings 439
FIGURE 15.33 Arcs areused inasimilarfashion,witheach arc representing a
locusofsupportorresistance.
FIGURE 15.34 Arcscanbecustomizedinmuchthesamewaythatfanscan.

P1:OTA
c15 JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 10:8 Printer:Yettocome
440 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
FIGURE 15.35 Fibonacciarcs,basedonextrememinimumandmaximumprice
points,cansuggestareasofstrongsupportandresistance.
Even more remarkable is the fact that extensions of these arcs, ac-
cessed via the customization dialog box, can also amplify the importance
ofaparticulararcformationbyshowinghowpricemovementsinthedis-
tantpaststillclungtotheselevels.InFigure15.36,agreatlyexpandedview
oftheDowJonesillustratespastpricesclimbingthelong-termarcs.
FIBONACCI TIME ZONES
The Fibonacci time zones is the only Fibonacci study that requires the
selection of one (instead of two) data point. It is also the only one that
expressesitselfasaseriesofverticallinesmeanttomeasuretimeinstead
ofprice.Thepurposeoftimezonesistopredictmajorturningpointsfora
givenfinancialinstrument.
To draw a Fibonacci time zone, you need only choose the Fibonacci
time zones tool (the third from the right on the tool bar) and click on an

P1:OTA
c15 JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 10:8 Printer:Yettocome
FibonacciDrawings 441
FIGURE 15.36 SometimesFibonacciarcsshowarelationshiptopricesevenfrom
yearsearlier.
extreme low or high on a graph. When you do, a series of vertical lines,
eachofwhichisfarthertotherightthanthepreviousone,willbedrawn.
As with other studies, the time series does not work equally well with all
graphs. Judging how friendly the study is by assessing its past predictive
valuewilldictatehowusefulthestudyisonaforward-lookingbasis.
Figure 15.37 provides a superb example of an excellent time series.
ThegraphistheS&P500,andthelowselectedisatthedeepestlevelofthe
Great Depression in the early 1930s. The four downward-pointing arrows
(providedonthischartforeasyinterpretationofthegraph)showthatthe
timeseriesstudydidapropheticjobinpinpointingfourcrucialpeaksinthe
marketthattookplaceovera70-yearperiod.Havingaffirmedtheaccuracy
oftheseturningpoints,youcouldexpandthechart’stimescaletolookinto
the future to see when the next turning point would be. Of course, there
maybeturningpointsbeforethen,butthisstudywouldofferatleastone
forthcomingmajorturningpointwithastronglikelihoodoftakingplace.
AswiththeotherthreeFibonaccistudies,thetimeseriescanbecus-
tomized (Figure 15.38), but the customization choices are limited to its
color,itsopacity,andwhetheryouwantareferencelinedisplayed.
When a time zone study is placed, a large number of vertical lines
aredrawn,especiallyneartheplacementpoint.Mostofthetime,theleft-
mostverticallinesdon’tcorrespondtoanyparticularturningpoint(Figure
15.39). Do not let this dissuade you from the predictive power of a given
study.Aslongastherightmostverticallinesappeartocorrelatewithmajor
turningpointsinthemarket,thestudyshouldbeperceivedashavingvalue
whenusedwithwhateversecurityyouareanalyzing.

P1:OTA
c15 JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 10:8 Printer:Yettocome
442 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
FIGURE 15.37 Thistimezoneschart,startedatthelowpointoftheearly1930s,
accuratelypredictedtheturningpointatfourmajorjunctures.
COMBINING OBJECTS
Fibonaccistudiesareattheirbestwhentheyarepaired.Theintersection
points of studies can be exponentially more powerful since they offer af-
firmationfromtwodifferentperspectivesofasupportorresistancelevel.
Figure15.40showstheDowJonesIndustrialAveragewithtwoFibonacci
FIGURE 15.38 The simplicity of the time zones also means its customization
choicesareverylimited.

P1:OTA
c15 JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 10:8 Printer:Yettocome
FibonacciDrawings 443
FIGURE 15.39 Earliertimezonesdonottendtobeasusefulandshouldtypically
beignored.
FIGURE 15.40 CombiningFibonaccistudiescanyieldgreaterinsight.Herethe
fansandretracementsarebeingusedasacombination.

P1:OTA
c15 JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 10:8 Printer:Yettocome
444 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
studiesonit:aretracementandfanlines.Thesixroundedrectanglesdrawn
foremphasisshowmajorturningpointsanticipatedbythestudies.Theleft-
most three rectangles show turning points predicted by the retracement
lines.Therightmostthreerectangleshavethebenefitofbeingaffirmedby
boththefansandthelines.Wheneveryouareapproachinganareawhere
two studies agree, you should consider that an especially potent price
level.
ThereisnoreasontolimityourselftoFibonaccistudieswhenanalyz-
ingagraph,ofcourse.Althoughyoudonotwanttoapplysomanydrawn
objects that the chart becomes too noisy with information, the judicious
applicationofwell-drawnstudiescanimproveyourpredictivepowersover
astock,index,oranyotherfinancialinstrument.
In Figure 15.41, a variety of trend lines, channels, Fibonacci retrace-
ments, and Fibonacci fan lines have been applied against the S&P 500 in-
dex.Workingtogether,thesestudiesarehelpfulinmonitoringandpredict-
ingthepricebehavioronbothalargetimescaleand,asseenontheright
sideofthechart,ashorter-termtimescale.
FIGURE 15.41 Trendlines,channels,retracements,andfansareallbeingused
onthisgraphoftheS&P500.

P1:OTA
c15 JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 10:8 Printer:Yettocome
FibonacciDrawings 445
SUMMARY
WehavenowcompletedourjourneythroughthefourFibonaccidrawnob-
jects.Asyouhaveseen,theFibonaccistudiesaresomeofthemostamaz-
ing and, used correctly, powerful predictive tools in your trading arsenal.
ToroundoutourknowledgeoftheProphetChartssystem,thenextchap-
ter will address the newest power features that have been introduced to
ProphetCharts.

P1:OTA
c16 JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 8:28 Printer:Yettocome
C H A P T E R 16
Power Features
B
ecause it is a web-based product, ProphetCharts can be updated
withnewfeaturesautomaticallyforallitsusers.Itisthereforevery
muchalivingproductandhasasteadystreamofnewfeaturesbeing
addedtoit.
A printed book, on the other hand, is a snapshot in time, and by the
time you read this, ProphetCharts will surely be capable of doing some
things not mentioned on these pages. However, since the first edition of
Chart Your Way to Profitswaspublished,somemajornewfeatureshave
been introduced, and we can learn about them here. These include the
abilitytoapplymultiplelabelstosymbols,createcustomizedratiocharts,
observe four charts at a time in grid mode, and look at charts flipped
upsidedown.
LABELS
Asyouknow,watchlistsareacrucialpartofkeepingyourtradingworld
organized.Builtcorrectly,watchlistsgiveyoutheopportunitytomaximize
theobservationsandopportunitiesyoutakefromthemarket.
However, a list of symbols is a one-dimensional way of organizing
things, because you are simply putting stocks (or other financial instru-
ments) into folders (that is, watch lists) of a certain name. If you want
to earmark symbols in a more meaningful way, you would formerly have
to make a large number of watch lists, each of which had the very
446

P1:OTA
c16 JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 8:28 Printer:Yettocome
PowerFeatures 447
specific category or classification you sought. In addition, one particular
symbol—GLD,forinstance—mighthavetobeputintomultiplewatchlists
(such as “Precious Metals,” “Commodities,” and “ETFs”), making things
messy.
With the new Labels feature, there is a much more elegant approach
available to you. Using Labels, you can assign any given symbol as many
propertiesasyoulike.Aproperty—inProphetChartsparlance,thisissyn-
onymous with label—can be any meaningful attribute. Some possibilities
mightbe:
(cid:1)
HighlyLiquid.
(cid:1)
Commodities-Related.
(cid:1)
LocalStock.
(cid:1)
EasytoShort.
(cid:1)
ExcellentDividend.
(cid:1)
Non-Marginable.
(cid:1)
Triple-BullishFund.
The symbols in your watch lists can have zero labels (the default) to
multiplelabels.Ifyoutakethetimetoassignlabelstoyoursecurities,you
willbenefitlaterbybeingabletoviewonlytheitemsofspecificinterestto
youatanygivenmoment.
Applying a label to a symbol is very easy, and there are a couple of
ways to do it. The most direct approach is to right-click on the symbol,
as shown in Figure 16.1, and click the Apply Label item. A sub-menu ap-
pears,showingallthelabelsavailable.Notethatwhenyoufirststartusing
ProphetCharts, these are the default labels that are available to you, just
togetyoustarted.Youwillbeabletoaddanddeletefromthislisttoyour
liking,asyoushallsoonsee.
Thereareafewthingstokeepinmindaboutlabels:
(cid:1)
Youcanapplyasmanylabelsasyouliketoeachgivensymbol.Acheck
markwillappearnexttoeachlabelthathasbeenappliedtoanygiven
symbol. (Figure 16.1 shows a symbol with no labels applied to it and
thus with no check marks.) The whole beauty of labels is that they
add an entirely different dimension to how you organize your watch
lists.
(cid:1)
The vast majority of work involved in labeling takes place when you
initially go through your symbols and mark them. It is very time-
consuming,butyouwillprobablyfindthattheinvestmentoftimepays
off handsomely since it will make viewing your lists a much richer
experience.

P1:OTA
c16 JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 8:28 Printer:Yettocome
448 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
FIGURE 16.1 Themostdirectwaytoapplylabelsisright-clickingasymbolina
watchlist.
(cid:1)
Youdon’tnecessarilyhavetolabelallyoursymbols.Labelasfeworas
manyasyouwant,andtrytoworkwithalistthatislongenoughtobe
detailedbutnotsooverlylongastoberedundant(e.g.,havingalabel
forGold,anotherforSilver,andanotherforPreciousMetalswouldbe
awaste;youmightsimplywanttousePreciousMetalsinstead).
Thereisamuchfaster,moreefficientwaytoapplylabels,though,and
thatisthroughthelabelseditor,showninFigure16.2.Thelabelseditorlets
youdoseveralusefulthings:
(cid:1)
Add or remove multiple labels quickly for a given symbol with just a
mouseclick.
(cid:1)
Scrollthroughallthesymbols, oneatatime,tomakeapplyinglabels
toalargegroupofsymbolsfaster.
(cid:1)
Addcustomizedlabels.

P1:OTA
c16 JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 8:28 Printer:Yettocome
PowerFeatures 449
FIGURE 16.2 The labels editor is the most powerful way of applying labels to
symbols.
To access this editor, right-click on any symbol and choose Labels
Editor.
Herearethevariousthingsyoucandowiththiseditor:
(cid:1)
Apply a label—Double-clickonthelabelyouwanttouse,anditwill
showupintherightsideofthedialogbox,indicatingthatthelabelis
nowappliedtothissymbol.
(cid:1)
Remove a label—Click on the red X next to the label name on the
rightsideofthedialogbox;itwillinstantlybedeleted.
(cid:1)
Add a custom label—Type in the label you want to use in the box
with the word “New.” Once you are done, click the Add button. Not
onlywillthislabelbeaddedtotherightside,showingitisusedforthis
symbol,butitwillalsobepermanentlyaddedtoyourlistoflabelsso
youcanaccessitforothersymbolsaswell.
(cid:1)
GotothenextsymbolintheWatchlist—ClicktheNextbutton.

P1:OTA
c16 JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 8:28 Printer:Yettocome
450 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
FIGURE 16.3 ThisiswhattheLabelsEditorlookslikeaftertwolabelshavebeen
appliedtoasymbol.
(cid:1)
Go to the prior symbol in the Watch list—Click the Previous
button.
(cid:1)
Acceptallthechanges—ClicktheOKbutton.
(cid:1)
Ignoreallthechanges—ClicktheCancelbutton.
Figure16.3illustrateswhattheLabelsEditorlookslikeafteracouple
of labels have been applied. You will see a red X next to the labels in the
rightcolumn,whichwoulddeletethem.
Theremightbelabelsthatyouneveruseandthereforewanttodelete.
If you want to delete a label, choose Delete Label from the Watch Lists
menu,andaDeleteLabeldialogboxwillappear,asshowninFigure16.4.
When you do, a warning box states that deleting the label will remove it
from all the symbols and watch lists, giving you a chance to change your
mindifyourealizethatyoudoinfactwanttoretainthatlabel.
Asmentionedearlier,ifyoufollowalotofsymbols,thenlabelingthem
properly will take a lot of time. In the end, though, it will be worth it,

P1:OTA
c16 JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 8:28 Printer:Yettocome
PowerFeatures 451
FIGURE 16.4 Youcandeleteanylabelsthatyoudecideyouwillnotbeusing.
since—liketheindexofabook—theywillmakefindingthingsmucheasier
foryou.
Tomakeuseofthelabels,gototheApplyLabelFiltersdialogbox.You
canaccessitbychoosingApplyLabelFiltersfromtheWatchListsmenuor
byright-clickinganywatchlistitem.Thedialogbox,showninFigure16.5,
hasanumberofelements:
(cid:1)
TheLabelcolumn—Shows,inalphabeticalorder,allthelabelsused.
(cid:1)
The Include column—Lets you put a check mark next to any label
whose affiliated symbols you want to view; for instance, if you only
wanttoseesymbolswiththelabelEasytoShort,checkthecheckbox
nexttothatlabel.Youcancheckasmanycheckboxesasyoulike,and
all the symbols that have any of those labels would be displayed in
theend.
(cid:1)
The Exclude column—The opposite of the Include column, it elimi-
nates symbols that include the label in question. So, for example, if
youdidnotwanttoseeanysymbolsthathadtheIndexlabel,youcould
clickExcludeontherowcorrespondingtotheIndexlabel.
(cid:1)
TheSelectAllbutton—Putsacheckmarknexttoallthelabels.Ifyou
have,forinstance,20labels,andyouwanttoapply18ofthem,itwould
saveyoutimebylettingyouselectallofthemandthenremovingthe
checkmarksforthetwolabelsthatdon’tinterestyou.

P1:OTA
c16 JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 8:28 Printer:Yettocome
452 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
FIGURE 16.5 TheLabelsFilterletsyouchoosewhichlabelsyoudoanddonot
wantappliedtoyourwatchlists.
(cid:1)
TheClearAllbutton—RemovesallthecheckmarksfromboththeIn-
cludeandExcludecolumns.
IfyouhaveselectedsomeitemstoincludeorexcludeandclickOK,the
labelsfilterswillbeappliedatonce.Youwillnoticeacoupleofbigchanges
inyourwatchlistmodule.First,anylabelsyouhavedecidedtoincludewill
be displayed at the very top of your watch list module in green, and any
labelsyouhavedecidedtoexcludewillbeimmediatelybelowthat,shown
in red. The green and red labels at the top are shown in attention-getting
colorstomakeitveryclearthatlabelsarebeingapplied.Theotherchange,
obviously, is that only the symbols that comply with the parameters you
havelaidoutaredisplayed.
So, for instance, if you have decided to include all the items with the
label“PreciousMetals”andexcludealltheitemslabeled“ThinlyTraded,”
youwouldonlysee(assumingyouhavedoneagoodjoboflabeling)finan-
cial instruments related to precious metals that have decent volume. You
would also see, at the top of the watch list module, “Precious Metals” in
greenand“ThinlyTraded”inred.

P1:OTA
c16 JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 8:28 Printer:Yettocome
PowerFeatures 453
AlsotakenoteoftheXnexttoeachoftheselabelsshowninthemod-
ule.Youcaninstantlyeliminatetheapplicationofanyofthesebyclicking
ontheX,whichisquickerthanmakingthesamechangeintheLabelsFilter
dialogbox.
Usedproperly,thelabelsfeatureinProphetChartswilldramaticallyin-
creasetheorganizationandutilityofwatchlistsandmakeyoumorecom-
fortablefollowingevenalargenumberofstocks,sinceyoucanhomeinon
thoseitemsthatareofgreatestinteresttoyouatanyparticularmoment.
GRID CHARTS
Ifyoufollowalotofstocks,onewaytospeedupviewingthesestocksis
withthegridmode.Inthismode,youcanviewfourchartsatatimeinstead
ofjustone.
Thereareacoupleofreasonsyoumightwanttodothis.Oneistore-
ducetheamountoftimeittakesyoutolookatallyourcharts.Ofcourse,
your examination of the charts is going to be somewhat less thorough,
since you are looking at charts one-fourth the normal size, and you will
probably be giving them a more cursory examination than you normally
would.
The second reason is if you want to look at one stock at a time but
using four different time periods or studies. This might give you a richer
perspectiveonwhatachartmightdonext.
As shown in Figure 16.6, there is a menu dedicated to this function
calledGridCharts.Choosingthefirstitem,GridMode,changestheregular
ProphetChartsscreenintoonewithfourequally-sizedpanes.
FIGURE 16.6 Choose Grid Mode to change ProphetCharts into a four-paneled
layout.

P1:OTA
c16 JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 8:28 Printer:Yettocome
454 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
FIGURE 16.7 Theinitialresultofusinggridmodeisfouridenticalchartpanes.
If you are looking at a single chart and choose Grid Mode, the result
willbesomewhatlikeFigure16.7:fourequallysizedpanes,eachidentical
to the others. At that point, you can treat each of these panes indepen-
dently,usinganysymbol,duration,frequency,orothersettingsineachof
thefourchartsthatyoulike.Asyoumakeotheralterationstothedefault
menu, such as adding technical studies, those embellishments will be ap-
pliedtowhicheverofthefourchartsiscurrentlyactive.
There is very little value in this, however, because all you’ve done
is given yourself one-fourth the amount of workspace you had before.
One useful thing to do, though, is to keep the same symbol in all four
panes but change the amount of time displayed in each. This allows you
to have a short-, medium-, long-, and very long-term perspective (or any
other combination) when examining the contents of a watch list (typing
a symbol into one of the panes doesn’t change the other three panes, but
thumbing through a watch list will populate all four panes with the same
symbol).
In Figure 16.8, for instance, the same symbol, DBB, is shown as a
10-year daily chart, a 5-day/5-minute chart, a 30-day/30-minute chart, and
a3-monthdailychart.

P1:OTA
c16 JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 8:28 Printer:Yettocome
PowerFeatures 455
FIGURE 16.8 Multiplepanescanprovideyoumultipleperspectives.
Once you have established a quartet of useful settings, you can pre-
serve them in a grid style, saving you the trouble of doing that work over
again. Choose the item Save Grid Style from the Grid Charts menu, and
thedialogboxinFigure16.9appears.Youhavetwochoiceshere:youcan
choosethefirstradiobuttonandtypeinauniquenameforthisstyle,oryou
canupdateanexistingstylewiththeradiobutton.Youcanalsochooseto
includetheaccompanyingtechnicalstudiesaspartofthestylebychecking
thepertinentcheckbox.
Whenyouareingridmode,youcanexaminethecontentsofawatch
list, one symbol at a time, but displayed in the four panes you have cus-
tomized.Lookingatchartsthiswayisperformedthesamewayasyoureg-
ularlylookatawatchlist:justopenupthelistyouwanttosee,double-click
on the first symbol, and press the down-arrow (or click the down-arrow
button)tothumbthroughcharts,onebyone.
We’vejustlearnedoneofthewaystousegridcharts—thatis,toexam-
ineasinglefinancialinstrumentfourdifferentways.Theotheruseforgrid
charts is to look at four different charts at a time (usually with the same
settings for each chart, since you want to be using consistent parameters
whenlookingatdifferentissues).

P1:OTA
c16 JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 8:28 Printer:Yettocome
456 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
FIGURE 16.9 Once you have estab- FIGURE 16.10 Youcanviewfourdif-
lishedthedesiredsettingsforyourfour ferent charts at once by choosing this
charts,youcansavethemasastyle. itemfromthepop-upwatchlistmenu.
To accomplish this, right-click on a watch list name and choose the
ViewinGriditem,asshowninFigure16.10.Whatthisdoesisautomatically
populatethegridwiththefirstfoursymbolsoftheselectedwatchlist.
Whatissomewhatunusualinthismodeisthatthefoursymbolsinthe
watchlistarehighlightedallatthesametime,andwhenyouclicktheup-
ordown-arrow(orbutton)tomoveupordownthelist,youwillmovefour
symbolsatatime(inchunks,sotospeak).Figure16.11givesanexampleof
thisfunction;youcanseeonthewatchlistthatfoursymbolsareshownin
inversetext,andthecorrespondingquartetofchartsisdisplayedinagrid.
As suggested before, there is a price to pay for grid charts, which is
thoroughness.Ifyouareexaminingonelargechartatatime,youareprob-
ably going to do a much better job of analyzing the stock, as opposed to
viewing a quarter-size chart accompanied by three different instruments.
However, if you want to do a more cursory examination of a long list of
charts,thegridmodecanbeavaluabletime-saver.
RATIO CHARTS
Charts do not necessarily need to be examined in a vacuum; analyzing
howonechartisdoinginrelationtoanothercanyieldprofitableinsights.

P1:OTA
c16 JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 8:28 Printer:Yettocome
PowerFeatures 457
FIGURE 16.11 Viewing a watch list in a grid can greatly reduce the amount of
timeexaminingalonglistrequires.
Assume,forexample,thatyoubelievedthevalueofgoldandsilvermoved
insuchawaythat,overtheyears,silveroscillatedbetweenworthhalfas
much as gold (relatively speaking) to being worth twice as much as gold.
(Thisexampleisoverlysimple,butithasapoint.)Thatwouldbeapower-
fulpieceofknowledgebecause,assumingthiscycleremainedintactonan
ongoingbasis,youcouldgolongsilver(andshortgold)atoneextremeof
theratioandgolonggold(andshortsilver)attheotherextreme.
ProphetChartsprovidestheabilitytocombinemultiplestocksymbols
with arithmetic operators to yield new graphs based on synthetic instru-
ments.Youcan’tactuallytradetheconcoctedsymbolsyoucreate,butyou
can draw insights from them. Take Figure 16.12 as a simple example. In
it, the user has typed in (GLD/SLV) in the symbol box, instead of just a
regularsymbol.Theparenthesesindicatethataformulaisbeingused,and
GLD/SLV divides the silver ETF (symbol SLV) into the gold ETF (symbol
GLD).Theresultisaratiochart—thatis,theratioofthesymbolGLDtothe
symbolSLV.Althoughitdoesn’tyieldthewhimsicalsinewaveconjuredup
in the aforementioned example, it still provides an interesting illustration
of how gold’s value interacts with silver’s (in this instance, gold is gener-
ally overpowering silver, although in this chart, its relative strength has
recentlybeengreatlydiminished).

P1:OTA
c16 JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 8:28 Printer:Yettocome
458 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
FIGURE 16.12 TheformulaGLD/SLVyieldsachartofthegold/silverratio.
There is a lot more power in ratio charts than simple division, how-
ever.ThemorepowerfulwayofenteringaformulaiswiththeRatioCharts
dialog box, which you can access directly from the Chart Settings menu.
Figure 16.13 provides an example of how to use this feature. In it is the
formula(goog+rimm+aapl+amzn)/4;thesefourstocksymbolsareknown
asthefourhorsemenoftheNASDAQexchange,andtheyaresurrounded
byparenthesesandfollowedbyadivisionsignandthenumber4.Thisfor-
mula, therefore, adds up the price values of all four of these stocks and
findstheiraverage,yieldingachartoftheFourHorsemenAverage(which
doesn’texist,butitdoesforthesakeofthisexample).
Youcanuseallthestandardbasicmathoperatorswhenconstructinga
formula:addition(+),subtraction(−),multiplication(*),anddivision(/),
along with parentheses, which take precedence over the other functions.
Figure16.14providesasomewhatmorecomplexexamplethatusesnested
parentheses. In this case, we are multiplying the value of SLV by 5 and
dividingthatresultintothevalueofGLD.Thereasonforthisisthat,asof
thiswriting,SLVisaboutone-fifththepriceofGLD,andthisformulahelps
normalizetheratio.Figure16.14issimilarinappearanceto16.12,butthe
y-axisvaluesaredifferentsincetheyarealignedtoamoretraditionalvalue
of1.0asbeing“normal”fortheratio.

P1:OTA
c16 JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 8:28 Printer:Yettocome
PowerFeatures 459
FIGURE 16.13 Arithmeticoperatorsandsymbolscanbeusedtocreateyourown
customindexes.
FIGURE 16.14 Usingnestedparentheseswhenconstructingaformula.

P1:OTA
c16 JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 8:28 Printer:Yettocome
460 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
FIGURE 16.15 YoucanpreserveallyourcustomizedchartsintheRatioCharts
module.
As with most features in ProphetCharts, the work you put into con-
structingsomethingcustomizedcanbepermanentlypreservedinyourac-
count. In this case, when you are done with constructing a formula, click
the button labeled Save Ratio. The formula you have entered will be pre-
servedinthemodulecalledRatioCharts.Fromthenon,youwillhaveac-
cesstoanyofthecustomformulasyouhavecreatedbydouble-clickingon
themintheRatioChartsmodule,showninFigure16.15.
Theratiochartsfeaturecallsforimaginationandcreativity,sinceyou’ll
needtothinkaboutmarketsinatrueintermarketsense;thatis,youwant
togatherinsightsfromwhatonefinancialinstrumentisdoinginrelationto
anotheranddeducehowyoucanprofitfromthosedynamics.
HIDING ELEMENTS
When it comes to charting, simpler is usually better. Traders with access
toalotofdifferentindicatorsandstudiesoftenoverdoit,thinkingthatthe
moreelaborateandcomplexthechart,themorepowerfulandusefulitis.
Thissimplyisn’tthecase.Aclean, sparechartwithonlythemostcrucial
elementsisgoingtobefarmorehelpfultoyouthanafireworksdisplayof
indicatorssplashedonthescreen.
Becauseofthis,ProphetChartsletsyouhideavarietyoftheelements
that are displayed. To briefly see the chart without a particular property,
youcantemporarilyorpermanentlyhidefeatures.Figure16.16showshow
tohideanitem:choosingtheHideitemfromtheChartSettingsmenu.
This menu also shows that most of these Hide functions have a key-
board equivalent. For example, to hide the volume pane, you could press
theCtrlandSpacebarkeys(andtorevealthepaneagain,youwouldpress

P1:OTA
c16 JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 8:28 Printer:Yettocome
PowerFeatures 461
FIGURE 16.16 Any elements currently hidden will have a check mark next to
them.
Ctrl-Spaceagain;thisiswhatisknownasatoggle,sinceitturnssomething
onandoffalternately).Thevariousitemsyoucanhideare:
(cid:1)
DrawnItems(Ctrl-D)—Hidesalltheobjectsyoucreatedwiththedraw-
ingtoolsmenu,suchastrendlines,Fibonaccistudies,andhighlights.
(cid:1)
Events(Ctrl-E)—Hidesalltheeventicons,suchasearningscallsand
dividend payments. Unless you consistently use these events as the
basis for trading decisions, you’ll probably want to hide events and
leave them hidden, temporarily turning them on only when you need
toglanceataneventforaparticularstock.
(cid:1)
Expansion (Ctrl-F)—As you know, you can add as much white space
horizontally (for time) and vertically (for prices) as you like with the
expansiontool.Ifyouwanttoreverttoaregularchartwithnoexpan-
sion,youcanusethisfunction(whichdoesn’tsomuchhideanobject
asitundoestheeffectofaparticularfeatureintheprogram).
(cid:1)
Grid Lines (Ctrl-G)—By default, ProphetCharts displays a Cartesian
gridoflinesforthemajorx-axisandy-axislevels.Youmighthaveno-
ticed in this book that there are virtually no gridlines shown; this is
becauseeliminatingthemmakesthechartssimplerandcleanertoin-
terpret for some people. You can toggle whether the grid is visible or
notwiththisfunction.
(cid:1)
Price—Thismightbeasurprisingoneforyou,sinceitseemsoddthat
a person would want to hide prices on a chart of prices. However, if
you are using overlay studies (such as moving averages) and want to
focusonthemandtheirmovementinsteadoftheprice,youcanmake
thepricebarsdisappear.

P1:OTA
c16 JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 8:28 Printer:Yettocome
462 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
(cid:1)
Studies(Ctrl-S)—Thisisprobablyoneofthemostfrequentlyusedtog-
gles, since a person generally doesn’t want to see studies on their
charts for every single viewing. Instead, studies are usually brought
upwhenapersonwantstoexamineachartmoredeeply.Togglingthe
studiesonandoffisfarmoreefficientthanclearingandthenreapply-
ingstudiesrepeatedly.
(cid:1)
Volume—Thishidefeatureissimilartobeingabletohideprice,since
it will still keep the pane open in which volume is displayed, but
the volume bars themselves will disappear. This is useful when you
are performing overlay studies on volume and want to temporarily
hidethebars.
(cid:1)
Volume Pane—Finally, this eliminates the volume pane altogether.
This is also one of the most frequently used toggles, since many
ProphetCharts users would rather use the space on their screen for
their price chart, only turning on the volume pane on the occasions
when they want to examine what volume action is going on with re-
specttotheaccompanyingpricedata.
Figure16.17showsanexamplechartinwhichbothpricesandvolume
bars are hidden. Somewhat like the Cheshire cat’s smile, only the studies
remain.
FIGURE 16.17 Theresultofhidingbothpriceandvolumebars.

P1:OTA
c16 JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 8:28 Printer:Yettocome
PowerFeatures 463
FIGURE 16.18 Thevolumeandpricebarsarerevealed,alongwiththeCartesian
gridinthebackground.
Figure16.18showsthepriceandvolumebarsreinstated,accompanied
by the grid. When you hide or unhide any particular element, the chosen
state will remain intact until you make any other changes. Also note that
thesettingsfortheelementsthatarehiddenorsuppressedwillbeincluded
inanyProphetChartsstylesthatyoupreserve,sincethesesettingsarecon-
sideredcriticalelementsofappearance.
UPSIDE-DOWN CHARTS
ProphetChartsnowalsohastheabilitytoflipchartsupsidedown.Allyou
havetodoispressCtrl-Utotogglebetweenupsidedownandrightsideup.
Whywouldthisbeuseful,youask?Ithelpsgiveyouanewperspectiveon
astock’smovement.Somepeoplehaveapredispositiontobullishcharts,
and others are predisposed to bearish charts. But turning the chart on its
head,youcanseeagraphwithatotallynewperspective, helpingyouget
pastanybiasesyoumighthaveinyourownexaminationofagraph.
Let’staketheextraordinaryexampleofDollarThriftyrentalcar(sym-
bol DTG), which fell from about $55 to about 60 cents in 2007 and 2008,
only to soar thousands of percent higher in price in 2009. Figure 16.19
shows DTG over a lengthy period, and the horizontal line provides a nice

P1:OTA
c16 JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 8:28 Printer:Yettocome
464 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
FIGURE 16.19 TheextraordinarypricemovementofDTGovereightyears.
demarcation as to when the price fell below support and, years later,
pushedupagainstresistance.
Experienced traders will claim to be neither bulls nor bears, but the
truth is that most people do tilt pretty strongly one way or the other. If
someone has bull on the brain (or bear on the brain, for that matter), it
mightbeinstructive,whenlookingatachartthathasexperiencedsuchex-
trememovement,toflipitupsidedownandseeiftheyfeelanydifferently
aboutit.Figure16.20,forexample,showstheresultofpressingCtrl-Uon
the DTG chart. As you can see, the prices and the y-axis are both flipped
(althoughthelogarithmicnatureofthegraphisretained).Tosomeonevery
accomplishedatpickingoutbullishcharts,theymightsaythatthischartis
extraordinarilybullish,which,giventhefactthatitisupsidedown,means
thatthiscouldbeacompellingshort-saleopportunity.
The upside-down feature is a toggle, but it only holds when you are
actuallypressingdownthekeys.Thereasonforthis,naturally,isthatyou
don’twanttoaccidentallyleavechartsinupside-downmodeandbebasing
yourdecisionsoninvertedcharts.

P1:OTA
c16 JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 8:28 Printer:Yettocome
PowerFeatures 465
FIGURE 16.20 When a chart is flipped upside down, it still maintains its loga-
rithmicproperties.
MORE TO COME
Asstatedearlierinthischapter,ProphetChartsisadynamic,ever-changing
product. You can expect improvements to continue coming, and depend-
ingonyourmethodofaccessingtheproduct,youwillbenotifiedofthese
improvements,andhowtousethem,inreleasenotesandotherannounce-
mentsthataredistributedbyyourplatformprovider.

P1:OTA
c17 JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 8:31 Printer:Yettocome
C H A P T E R 17
For Bears Only
I
n my trading, I have made a specialty of being a short-seller (that is,
bettingthatasecuritywillgodown),andI’velearnedafewthingsabout
short-sellinginmymanyyearsofdoingso.I’dliketosharesomeofmy
personalexperiencesandknowledgehere.
THE PHILOSOPHY OF SHORTING
Selling a stock short involves selling a security you do not own, pledging
that you will buy back the same stock at a later date (and hopefully at
a lower price). There are many financial instruments you can short (and
manywaysyoucanshortthemarketbygoinglong,suchaspurchasingput
options),butIwillusestocksasthefocusinthischapter,sincethatisthe
simplestandmostpopularmethod.
OverthemanyyearsI’vebeentradingandwritingmyblog,peoplehave
oftenaskedmewhyItendtobeabearinthefirstplace.Letmefirststate
that I am quite aware of a couple of reasons why a person shouldn’t be a
bear:
1. Thewholeworldisagainstyou.Fromtheinvestmentbanks,toCNBC,
toJimCramer,tothebrokeragehouses,everyoneontheplanetwants
themarkettogoupforever.Thereisahuge,huge,hugevestedinterest
inthemarketsgoingskywardforalleternity.Sobybeingabear,you
aredefinitelygoingagainstthecrowd.
466

P1:OTA
c17 JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 8:31 Printer:Yettocome
ForBearsOnly 467
2. Noonegetsrichbeingabear.FortuneslikeWarrenBuffett’saremade
byinvestinginstocksthatreapmultithousandpercentgainsormore.
ThereisvirtuallynooneontheForbes400listthatgottherebybeing
a bear, although there are a couple of big hedge fund managers who
havedoneso.
Havingsaidthat,allowmetoexplainmyselfandhopefullyshedsome
light on my position. I have several reasons, some of which are rational,
andotherswhicharenot:
Impatience: I’m not the most patient soul in the world. And the fact
is that markets fall much faster than they rise. For instance, on
February27,2009,themarketplummetedover500pointsinjusta
fewhours.Ittakesweekstogoupthatmuch(usually).Thefinan-
cialturmoilinlate2007andthroughout2008isafineexample—it
tookonly15monthstowipeoutgainsthathadrequiredadecade
toform.SoI’mdrawntofast-movingmarkets.
Worrywart:I’maworrierbynature.Iwouldn’tgosofarassayingI’m
apessimist,butusuallyItendtoseethethingsthatwillgowrong
faster than I see the things that will go right. (I will add this is a
skillthatisquitehandywhenoneisraisingyoungchildren.)
Unconventional:SomehowI’mwiredtowanttobedifferent.Iliketo
standapartfromthecrowd.Permyintroductoryparagraph,being
a bear is by its very nature weird and different. If you happened
tobethiswayduringthe1980sand1990s,it’salsoterriblyunprof-
itable!
Long-TermCharts:I’machartist.Ibelieveinwhatchartscanpredict.
And every long-term chart I see (and when I say long-term, I’m
talking about over a century in some cases) absolutely screams
TOP! to me. And if you study the charts well, it doesn’t predict a
fewhundredpointsofftheDow.Itpredictsacataclysm,andIwant
toprofitfromit.
SocialObservation:OneofthefewverbsIrememberfromfouryears
ofLatininhighschoolisspeculare,fromwhichwederivetheterm
speculate. This verb doesn’t mean “to gamble” but instead means
“toobserve.”Iamaspeculator,andassuch,Iamanobserver.And
whatIamnoticinginthepresentenvironment,basedonmylong-
termanalysisofmarkets,pointstoamultiyeardownturnfollowed
byremarkable,long-termgrowth.
Whatever a person’s reasons for leaning one way or another in the
never-ending bull-bear battle, my belief is that most traders are natu-
rally inclined to be either bullish or bearish, and it’s important to your

P1:OTA
c17 JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 8:31 Printer:Yettocome
468 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
developmentasatradertohaveenoughself-awarenesstounderstandyour
inclinationsandthereasonsbehindthem.IhopesomeofthereasonsI’ve
offeredformyownpersonalbiashelpshedsomelightonyourownthink-
ingaswell.
PRACTICAL GUIDE TO SHORT-SELLING
Insimplestterms,short-sellingisnodifferentthanthenormalbuyingand
selling of a stock, except that you are doing it backwards. Bulls want to
buylowandsellhigh;bearswanttosellhighandbuylow.
There are obstacles, however, that exist for bears that bulls need not
contendwith.Youshouldbeawareofthesepitfalls:
(cid:1)
Locating the Stock—If you want to buy a stock, your broker will
alwaysbehappytooblige.Butifyouwanttosellastock,theyhaveto
finditfirst.Typically,thelargerthebrokeragefirm,theeasieritisfor
themtolocateastock.Somebrokeragescanshowyoulistsofstocks
thatareeasyforthemtoborrow.Generallyspeaking,themorewidely
tradedastockis,theeasieritwillbetofind.Ifyoufindyourselfoften
frustrated with your broker’s lack of inventory, and you are serious
aboutshort-selling,youmightconsiderchangingbrokers.
(cid:1)
TheUptickRule—Asofthiswriting,thisruleisnolongerbeingused,
but there is talk of bringing it back in some form. The uptick rule, in
itspriorform,deemedthatapersoncouldnotsellastockshortunless
there was an uptick in its price—that is, unless the stock traded at a
pricehigherthanitdidbefore,indicatingtherewasatleastsomelevel
of buying happening. This is, sadly, an example of how the market is
constructedtobeagainstthebears—noticethereisnodowntickrule
onthebooks—butthelogicwasthatthemarketsshouldnotpermita
stock to go down mercilessly, aided by the incessant selling pressure
ofthebears.
(cid:1)
Buy-Ins—Onceyouareinashortposition,yourbrokeragecanforce
you out of that position, even at a price that you’d prefer not to take.
Thisisknownasabuy-in.Recallthat,inordertosellastockthatyou
donotown,youneedtoborrowitfromsomeoneelse.Well,thatsome-
oneelsemightwantitback;moreparticularly,ifthebroker’sinventory
ofthatgivenstockshrinkstothepointthattheyneedtorecovershares
thataresoldshort,theymayneedtotakeyououtofthatposition.
(cid:1)
Dividends—Ifyouownadividend-payingstock,youenjoybeingpaid
a (usually small) dividend periodically from the company. If you are
shortastock,thereverseistrue—youactuallyhavetopaythedividend

P1:OTA
c17 JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 8:31 Printer:Yettocome
ForBearsOnly 469
yourself, on behalf of the company, since the rightful owner of the
stockisstillduethatdividend.Sothiscreatesatruecashcosttobeing
short a particular security (which means you might want to focus on
stocksthatdon’tpayadividendinthefirstplace).
(cid:1)
Squeezes—Youhaveprobablyheardtheterm“shortsqueeze”before,
but perhaps you’re not sure what it meant. When a large number of
individuals have short positions in a given stock, they all are obliged
tobuybackthatstockatsomepoint.Butlet’sassumethatastockhas
been performing well, and it keeps pushing to new highs (or at least
technicallevelsthataredamagingtobears).Thosewhoareshortthe
stock will be compelled to close their positions in order to stop the
pain,andthatcreatesmorebuyingpressureonthestock.Thisbuying
pressure, in turn, compels other shorts to cover their positions, and
thiscascadeofbuyingfeedsonitself.Thisiswhatisknownasashort
squeeze, because eventually all the bears on that stock are falling all
overthemselvestogetout,which,ironically,isterrificforthebulls.So
itisbesttoavoidstocksthatarealreadyheavilyshort(thereareentire
web sites devoted to tracking the short interest on stocks, showing,
relativelyspeaking,howmanysharesareshortforagivencompany’s
stockfloat).
(cid:1)
Emergency Rules—There are times when extraordinary circum-
stances in the market lead to extraordinary measures being taken.
Sincethosewhoregulatemarketstendtobeinfavorofupwardmar-
kets,andopposedtodownmarkets,thesemeasuresarealmostwith-
out exception designed against bears. During the historic week of
September 15, 2008, the SEC put rules in place banning short-selling
onanentireclassofwidelytradedfinancialstocks.Thiscausedhavoc
in the markets, particularly on securities based on bearish financial
positions. So during tumultuous times, be warned that the laws and
regulationsmightbechangedrightunderyourfeet.
Thereisoneotherriskoftenmentionedwhenthetopicofshort-selling
arises, and that is how potential losses are infinite. In other words, if a
personpays$10ashareforastock,themostheisriskingis$10pershare,
becauseastockcanneverbeworthlessthanzero.However,ifapersonis
shortastockandpledgestobuyitback,thereisnolimittohowhighthe
stockcango,andthusaperson’stheoreticalriskisunlimited.
I think this argument has a point, but in general it’s pretty silly. I re-
member when I was learning to scuba dive that some people would get
completely unhinged at the vastness of the ocean. The ocean is gigantic,
it can be miles deep in places, and even in a normal dive spot, there is a
hundred feet of uninterrupted water beneath you. Yes, that’s all true, but

P1:OTA
c17 JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 8:31 Printer:Yettocome
470 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
you’rebuoyant,andit’sabitpreposteroustoequatebeingahundredfeet
abovetheseafloorwithbeingahundredfeetintheair.
By the same token, although one’s potential risk of loss is indeed un-
limited, there are a few basic risk-management tools that can render this
pointvirtuallymoot:
(cid:1)
Position Size—There’snoreasonanyparticularpositionhastocon-
stitutealargepercentageofyourportfolio.Ipersonallytendtohavea
verylargenumberofpositions,soevenifIgetanastysurpriseinone
stock,ithasaveryminoreffectonmyoverallportfolio.
(cid:1)
Stop-Losses—Ifapersonhasnostop-lossorderandiscontenttoleta
stockhehassoldshortriseforever,then,yes,hecanlosemuchmore
thanthesumofhisoriginalinvestment.Butthatwouldbefoolish;you
shouldalwayshaveastop-lossorderonallyourpositions,ifyouwant
toremainprudent.
(cid:1)
Price Ranges—The simple fact of the matter is that, even with an
earnings blowout or a corporate takeover, it is very rare that a stock
(unless it is a penny stock) pushes up hundreds of percent in value
overnight.Evenifashortpositionmovesagainstyou,thepercentage
loss is usually going to be quite modest. I try to keep my risk to less
than 10 percent for any one position, which is far enough away from
“unlimited”tomakemecomfortable.
EXCHANGE-TRADED FUNDS
Priorto1993,therewasnosuchthingasanexchange-tradedfund(ETF),
butasofthiswriting,therearemorethan1,500ofthem.Thesearefinancial
instrumentsthattradeverymuchlikestocksbutcanrepresentawidevari-
etyofslicesofthefinancialworld,includingsectors,countries,andinverse
funds(whichareofinteresttousinthischapter).
Prior to their creation, the function of ETFs was largely covered by
mutual funds, but mutual funds have some pretty big disadvantages for
activetraders,nottheleastofwhichisthattheycanbeboughtorsoldonly
at the end of the trading day. On the other hand, ETFs trade through the
day(and,forthemostpopularissues,afterhoursaswell),andsomeETFs
areamongthemostpopularinvestmentvehiclesintheworld.
Forthoselookingtotakeonbearishpositions,thereisanaddedben-
efit:becauseoftheexistenceofinversefunds,onecantakeonalongpo-
sition while actually being short the market. This was useful to me, for
instance,in2008,becauseIhadmoneyina401(k)thatIwantedtouseon
theshortside,butthecustodianforbadeanythingexceptlongpositions.I

P1:OTA
c17 JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 8:31 Printer:Yettocome
ForBearsOnly 471
tookadvantageofinversefundstoproduceanextremelysubstantialgain
thatyear.(Regrettably,inextendingitsmissionofapparentlyprotectingin-
vestorsfromthemselves,thesamecustodianwentsofarastobantrading
ofETFsaltogetherin2009.)
A number of firms offer inverse funds, a couple of which are Rydex
and ProShares. With a regular brokerage account, you should be able to
buy and sell pretty much any ETF, and even if you are required to have
onlylongpositions,youcanstillbeshortthemarket.
TherearemanywaystotakeonbearishpositionsbyusingETFs.While
newETFsarebeingcreatedallthetime,listedhereareseveraloftheex-
istingcategories:
(cid:1)
Index ETFs—These were the first ETFs ever created, withSPY being
theoriginalbackin1993:SPY,forexample, followsthemovement of
the S&P 500, QQQQ follows the NASDAQ 100, and IWM follows the
Russell 2000. Most index ETFs are extremely heavily traded and thus
veryliquid,andtheserepresentthemostdirectwaytoshortanentire
market.YoucouldsellshorttheSPY,forinstance,tobeshorttheS&P
500index.
(cid:1)
Sector ETFs—These cover entire sectors, such as semiconductors,
consumerstaples,andsoforth.Theserepresentagoodway(forbulls
andbearsalike)totakeapositiononanentireindustryasopposedto
asinglestockorawholeindex.
(cid:1)
Commodity ETFs—Most stock traders aren’t interested in getting di-
rectly involved in the commodities market by opening a futures ac-
count;theseETFsallowyoutotakeadvantageofpriceswingsingold,
silver, agricultural commodities, or a variety of other baskets. If you
wanted to take a bearish position on gold, for instance, the symbols
GLDandGDXarebothveryheavilytradedgoldETFs.
(cid:1)
Inverse ETFs—These are similar to other ETFs, except that they go
up when the underlying instruments go down. For example, the sym-
bol DOG is the inverse of the Dow 30 index, so if on a given day
the Dow 30 goes down by 2 percent, then DOG would climb about
4percent.
(cid:1)
Leveraged ETFs—Finally, leveraged ETFs are supercharged versions
of regular ETFs, since they move more than 100 percent of the direc-
tion of the underlying instrument. Various coefficients are available,
such as 1.5 times, 2 times, 3 times, and even 4 times. For instance,
the symbol TWM is a double inverse fund on the Russell 2000, so if
onagivendaytheRussellwentdown1.5percent,meaningitsETFthe
IWMwouldalsobedown1.5percent,thentheTWMwouldbeupabout
3percent,sincethemovementisdoubled.Likewise,iftheRussellwent
up1.5percent,theTWMwouldgodown3percent.

P1:OTA
c17 JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 8:31 Printer:Yettocome
472 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
Nowlet’stakeamomenttoreviewaveryimportantpointaboutlever-
aged ETFs. There is a very insidious reality about leveraged ETFs that it
seemsalotofpeopledonotunderstand,whichisthatunlessagivenindex
orsector(onwhichtheETFisbased)movesveryconsistentlyinthedirec-
tionyoudesire,thevalueofyourETFwillprobablysufferevenif,overthe
longhaul,thedirectionyouwantittomoveisrealized.
Let’stakean oversimplified example: let’ssuppose you had adouble-
inverseETFonagivenindex,andlet’sgiveitthevalueof$100.OnaMon-
day, the index goes up 5 percent, meaning your ETF goes down to $90.
OnTuesday,toyourrelief,theindexgoesdown5percent.Areyoubackto
whereyoustarted,sincetheindexhasmovedinyourdirectionbyprecisely
thesameamountitmovedagainstyouthepriorday?No,becauseyour$90
ETFgoesup10percentinvalue,whichis$99.Soyouaredown1percent,
eventhough,overthecourseofthosetwodays,theindexhasn’tbudged.
Now imagine this process repeated over and over, and you will soon
realize that the value of the ETF can wither away, even if the market is
generallymovinginyourdirection.Iftheindexkeptwigglingupanddown,
dayafterday,theETFwouldbedown40percentin100tradingdays(and
thisisn’teventakingintoaccountfundexpensesandotherslippage,which
woulddamagethefundevenmore).
A surprising number of supposedly sophisticated investors didn’t
realize this when they bought into ultra ETFs, because both bullish- and
bearish-oriented leveraged funds tended to suffer unless their movement
was relatively consistent in the intended direction. Late in 2008, two new
instruments based on financial stocks were introduced; their symbols
wereFAS(triple-bullish)andFAZ(triple-bearish).Theextraordinarything
isthatbothfundslostmostoftheirvalueeventhoughtheyareopposites.
Amateur observers would have assumed that one would prosper while
the other suffered, but both of them did poorly (and very savvy traders
shorted as much of both of them as they could when they were initially
broughttomarket).
PUTS FOR LEVERAGED PROFITS
If you are not well acquainted with options, here is a simple explanation:
options give you the right (but not the obligation) to buy (in the case of
acalloption)orsell(inthecaseofaputoption)aparticularfinancialin-
strumentataparticularpricewithinacertainamountoftime.Optionsare
derivativeinstruments,meaningtheyarebasedonsomethingelse(which
mightbeanindex,astock,acommodity,orthelike).
An option’s price is crudely composed of two components: intrinsic
valueandtimepremium.Let’staketheexampleofacalloptiononApple

P1:OTA
c17 JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 8:31 Printer:Yettocome
ForBearsOnly 473
ComputerthatexpiresinJuneofacertainyear(forthepurposeofthisex-
ample,let’ssaythatitiscurrentlyApril)andgivesyoutherighttobuy100
shares of Apple at $200 per share. Let’s further assume that Apple is cur-
rentlytradingat$210andtheoptioninquestionhasavalueof$15.Inthis
instance,theintrinsicvalueofthecallis$10(becauseitisworth$10topay
$200forastockwhichhasamarketpriceof$210),anditstimepremium
is $5 (because there is uncertainty about what the price will do between
April and June, and people are willing to pay a premium for that uncer-
tainty). The option itself, by the way, would cost $1,500, since it controls
100shares,notjustone.
Aputoptionissimilar,except itgivesyoutherighttosellsomething
at a given price (which is known as the strike price). Let’s use the Apple
exampleagain,onlythistimewe’redealingwithaputinsteadofacall,and
let’ssupposethepriceoftheoptionis$5.Inthiscase,thereisnointrinsic
value,sincehavingtherighttosellAppleat$200whenthemarketpriceis
$210 isn’t of interest toany economically rational person. Infact, thereis
negativeintrinsicvalueof$10,whichmeansthetimepremiumis$15.
As you might guess, one of the appealing things about options is the
leveragetheyprovide.And,generallyspeaking,thecalmeramarketis,the
greatertheleverage.Thereasonforthisisthattimepremiumswillbemuch
higher in volatile markets because people are scared and willing to pay a
highpremium.It’snotmuchdifferentthanthecostofhurricaneinsurance
inFloridaversusIowa—thepremiumsaregoingtobevastlydifferent.
So let’s return to Apple again and assume that we thought the stock
wasgoingtofall.Let’sfurthersupposethatthemarkethasbeenextremely
benign, and faith in Apple’s upward price trajectory is deeply embedded
among investors, so a June put option with a strike at $200 is selling for
just10cents(thestockprice,aswiththeearlierincarnationofthisexam-
ple,isstill$210).Anoptionpricedat10centsmeanseachcontract(which
controls 100 shares) is $10, so let’s say you took an aggressively bearish
positionandbought1,000ofthesecontractsforatotalcostof$10,000.
Thenext morning, Appleannounces something very badforitsstock
price, and it plunges $20 to $190 per share. You have put options with
a $20 strike, and these now have an intrinsic value of $10 each. In addi-
tion,becausepeoplearesuddenlyverynervousaboutApple,thereisa$5
timepremium,makingtheprice$15.Youarenowthe(ecstatic)ownerof
$1.5millioninAppleputs,whichyoupromptlysellforabreathtakingprofit.
Laterthatday,youbuyeveryoneinyourtownthelatestiPod.
Now, this is a bit of a silly example, but it shows you the power of
leverage. If you took the same $10,000 and shorted 48 shares of Apple
(which is what you could do in a cash account at $210 per share), even
withthe$20plunge,youwouldhavenetted$960—afarcryfromamillion
andahalfdollars.Ofcourse,therealityisthatyour$10,000inoptionswill

P1:OTA
c17 JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 8:31 Printer:Yettocome
474 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
in all likelihood expire worth $0, netting a $10,000 loss if you hold on to
them until the very end, but sometimes options holders can experience
astronomicalgains.
Ifyoudodecidetogiveoptionsatry,hereareseveralwordsofadvice:
(cid:1)
Don’tgetstarsinyoureyes—Storieslikethisonearecompelling,but
soisreadingaboutlotterywinners.Thevastmajorityofthetime,those
purchasinghigh-riskoptionswinduplosingtheentireinvestment.It’s
bettertostartsmallandaimlow.
(cid:1)
Avoidout-of-the-moneyoptions—Trytogetoptionswithsomeintrin-
sicvalue.Buyingcheapout-of-the-moneyoptionsmakesforhypothet-
icallyhigherpercentagereturns,buttheoddsarestackedmuchmore
heavily against you, and the time premium you will be paying will be
much greater. Buying in-the-money options is safer and more conser-
vative,and(atleastatthetimeofpurchase)itgivesyoutheassurance
thatyouarepurchasingsomethingthathasworth.
(cid:1)
Avoid nearby expiration dates—As with out-of-the-money options,
options that expire relatively soon are going to be very cheap and
temptingtobeginningtraders.Thereisaphenomenoninoptionspric-
ingknownasthetaburn,whichessentiallyistherateatwhichatime
premium decays as the expiration date nears. The decay looks like a
plunging roller coaster as the final weeks of an option’s lifespan take
place,soitisbesttogetanoptionthatisatleastacouplemonthsout
togiveyourpositionareasonablechanceofworkingout.
Buying in-the-money, far-out options is duller than getting out-of-the-
moneyoptionsthatexpireinaweek,butit’sradicallysafer.Youmightmiss
a“hititoutoftheballpark”tradenowandthen,butyouwillprobablyavoid
alotoflosses,too.Thebottomlineisthatleverageisatwo-edgedsword,
andthesamepowerthatmakesbreathtakingreturnspossibleisalsoable
toprovideyou100percentlosses.
GOOD AND EVIL
The nature, definition, and manifestation of good and evil are subjects I
have pondered many times in my life. All cultures, philosophies, and reli-
gions have their own views on these subjects. Some of them dismiss the
ideathatevilevenexists.Idisagree.
The best definition of evil I remember reading was this: “That which
destroyslifeandliveliness.”

P1:OTA
c17 JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 8:31 Printer:Yettocome
ForBearsOnly 475
But how does one comprehend goodness? Do we simply invert the
aforementioneddefinition,yielding“Thatwhichcreateslifeandliveliness”?
I think that is a step in the right direction. But the thought of good-
ness conjures up, for me, a variety of other properties. In no particular
order—andthislistisfarfromcomplete—goodnessis:
(cid:1)
Balance
(cid:1)
Harmony
(cid:1)
Order
(cid:1)
Love
(cid:1)
Faith
(cid:1)
Compassion
(cid:1)
Generosity
(cid:1)
Kindness
(cid:1)
Honesty
(cid:1)
Bravery
(cid:1)
Moderation
Noneofthisisterriblycontroversial.Buttherearesomesubtletiesin
humannatureandbehaviorthatmakethetopiclesssimple.
Self-Perception
ThemassofindividualsonEarthdon’talignthemselvestoastandardyard-
stick of principles and behaviors in order to present themselves as being
onaparticularpointonthecontinuumofgoodandevil.Peopleare,inmy
view,self-interestedcreatures;it’stemptingtoconsideranotherpersonevil
simply because he is different (or has a different worldview). I seriously
doubt Osama bin Laden stares at his fragment of a mirror hanging in the
cave,cacklesmischievouslytohimself,anddeclares,“Oh,whatafinelife
it is to be evil. I shall crush all those goody-two shoes that oppose me!”
NordoIthinkthelikesofHitlerorStalinconsideredthemselvestobeevil.
They were consumed with their own motives, and those in opposition to
thosemotivesweregoingtoeithergetoutofthewayorbedestroyed.
Ithinkthevastmajorityofhumanitywouldagreethatsuchindividuals
were,infact,evil.Butwhat’srequiredtomakethissortofassertionissome
perspective.
Is Heroism Chosen?
Whatconstitutesahero?
On a regular basis, newspapers and television shows have stories of
individualswho,inthefaceofdangertothemselvesorlovedones,decided

P1:OTA
c17 JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 8:31 Printer:Yettocome
476 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
toactwithremarkablecourageandstrengthinordertoachieveapositive
outcome.Amanrunsintoaburningbuildingtosavethelifeofastranger;a
womandivesintoafrozenlaketorescuesomeonewhofellin;adogdrags
aninjureddogoffaroadtopreventitfrombeingkilled.
These are all heartwarming, and as sentimental as I am, I’m probably
even more affected and moved by these stories than most others. But do
heroes choose to be good, or are they simply wired that way? And if they
arewiredthatway,aretheyanymoredeservingofourpraisethananyone
else blessed by other genetic dispositions, such as having blond hair or a
nicesingingvoice?
In the end, I don’t think anyone really cares if it was a person’s con-
scious choice to behave heroically. The fact is that they did, and the ac-
tionitselfgivesthatpersonheroicattributes.Itisallthemorealluringand
praiseworthytothepublicthatthesedecisionsareusuallymadeinasplit
second, because deep inside we’re all wondering if we would have done
thesamething;weponder,nomatterwhatourself-image,ifwehavethat
goodnesswithinusthatwesoadmireinothers.
What Does This Have to Do with Trading?
ThereasonIbringthissubjectupinabookabouttradingisthatIbelieve
thereisabigmisunderstandingabouttheactionsoftradersandwhatthose
actions represent: specifically, the notion that buying stocks (and being
bullish) is good whereas selling or shorting stocks (and being bearish)
isbad.
Let’sstartwithafewbasicsuppositions:
(cid:1)
Unlessone’stradingsizeissogiganticcomparedtoagivensecurity’s
volumethatyouaregoingtopushthemarketsubstantiallyupordown,
youractionsareimmaterialtothemarketasawhole.
(cid:1)
Unless you are actively and effectively spreading malicious untruths
aboutagivenorganizationorsecurity,youaretradingmorally.
(cid:1)
Your participation in an aftermarket does nothing to help or hinder a
publiccompany.
Let’sfocusonthatlastpoint.Ifyoubuy5,000sharesofApple(AAPL),
thecompanyAppledoesn’tcare.You’renothelpingthem,theiremployees,
theirsales,theircustomers,ortheirmanagementofexpenses.Ifyoushort
5,000sharesofAAPL,likewise,thecompanydoesn’tcare.
Now, if it were 1976, and Steve Jobs and Steve Wozniak came to
you for start-up funding, and you gave it to them, Apple would care
very much—because you are providing them what they need to create a

P1:OTA
c17 JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 8:31 Printer:Yettocome
ForBearsOnly 477
business. And if, in 1980, you as an investment bank agree to underwrite
their public offering, Apple again cares, because you are providing them
withasourceoffinancingthatwillhelpthemgrowasabusiness.
Butonceacompany’spublic,youractionsasatraderreallyhavenoth-
ing to do with them. Sure, a company (and, more particularly, its share-
holding employees) like to have a stock bid up to higher prices. But your
actionsasatraderaren’tcreatinganygood(orevil)forthatorganization.
Youareoperatinginarealmoutsidetheboundsofthatenterprise.
Creation and Destruction
Somepeoplegettheideathatbearsaremalicious,nasty,grubbycreatures
that relish the thought of destruction and collapse. I can’t speak for all
bearishtraders,butIwouldsayformyself—andIwouldthinkmostsane
people—thatthisnotionisabsolutejunk.
Anobjectivetechnicaltraderdoesthefollowing:
1. Examinesachart.
2. Reachesaconclusion.
3. Actsuponthatconclusion.
Thereisnothingmalevolent inthelist.Nothing.IfIbelievethestock
BIDUisgoingtofall,andIshortit,thenIamtakingactionsthatIhopewill
beprofitableforme.Iamtakingarisk.Yes,Iamhopingthestockwillfall,
because that benefits me and aligns with my analysis. It feels good to be
right,anditfeelsgoodtotakeaprofit.Butthishopehasnothingtodowith
wishingillonothers;itissimplyasuppositionmadebasedonanalysis.
OthersmightsaybearswantAmericatofail,orthattheyhateAmerica.
Again: nonsense. I love this country. I built a business here, creating em-
ployment,products,andprofits—andIsoldittoamuchbiggerfirm.Iraise
myfamilyhere.Thereis,onthewhole,nootherplaceI’dratherlive.
But my perception that this country is going very bad places doesn’t
make me un-American. If anything, my willingness to perceive and talk
abouttheseconcernsmakesmethatmuchmoreofanAmerican.Iwould
liketoseethiscountrycomeoutontheothersideofthismessinonepiece.
I would say blind optimists who figure things will get better just because
theyoughttogetbetterareunpatrioticbywayoftheirapathy.
Asforcorporations:ifyoureallywanttodestroyacompany—ifthat’s
your fondest wish—then create a better competitor! Who do you think
had a more destructive effect on Yahoo!: short-sellers or the founders
of Google? I think even a million short-sellers couldn’t even approach
the damage that the two co-founders of Google created. So Joseph
Schumpeter’snotionofCreativeDestructionwinstheday.

P1:OTA
c17 JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 8:31 Printer:Yettocome
478 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
The Amorality of Trading
For99.9percentoftradersoutthere,tradingisanamoralact.You’renot
good for buying; you’re not evil for selling; you’re not virtuous by being
bullish;you’renotmalevolentbybeingbearish.
What about the circumstance where you actually make a profit as a
directresultofthesufferingofothers?
Let’s suppose that, on September 10, 2001, you were strongly of the
opinionthatairlinesweregoingtogodowninprice,soyouputallofyour
tradingcapitalintoputsonAmericanAirlines,UnitedAirlines,andthelike.
September 11 happens and when the market finally reopens on the 17th,
your puts soar in value hundreds of percent (I do not know what the op-
tionsactuallydidduringthatmonth,butIamguessingthisisclosetothe
truth).
Wasthereevilintentinyourtrade?Didyoucontributetoanevilcause?
Didyouassisttheterrorists?No,ofcoursenot.
Did you (unwittingly) profit because of a terrorist act? Yes. Does this
make you evil? Based on hypothetical circumstances I have described, I
wouldsaytheanswerisno.
Now,itcertainlymightfeelunseemlyifyouwereinthisposition(and
we won’t even go into a potential visit from federal authorities, curious
about your prescient timing). Your profits might feel like blood money to
you—youmightevendonatealltheprofitstotheRedCross,sinceitwould
seemliketherightthingtodo.
Iproposethatyouhavenosinyouneedpurge,althoughIdoagreeit
mightbefitting,anderaseaperceivedstainonyoursoul,tosurrenderthe
profits,sincethecircumstancewouldbeprofoundlyunusual.
But,let’sfaceit,9,999timesoutof10,000,aprofitableshortsaleorput
positiondoesn’tdowellbecauseofaneventthatcauseshumansuffering.
ButIthinkthewisebearkeepshismouthshutaboutprofitingfromacom-
pany’s troubles. No matter how morally neutral a trade might be, there is
stillroominthisworldfordecorumandcommonsense.
The bottom line, for me, can be expressed simply as this: you simply
are, your trading is, and the markets are. These things are neutral, and it
isyourrelationshiptothemarketthatwilldictateyourprofitsandlosses.
Outsideofthoseboundaries,nothingmatters,andnooneneedcare.
THE SLOPE OF HOPE
In 1995, I had been trading stocks and options for about 17 years, and I
had also sold the company I founded, Prophet Financial Systems. I was
spendingalotoftimetrading,andafamilymembersuggestedthatIstarta
blogaboutit.

P1:OTA
c17 JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 8:31 Printer:Yettocome
ForBearsOnly 479
Althoughbloggingwasrelativelynewatthetime,Iwashesitanttodo
my own blog, mainly because it seemed a bit too trendy. I really didn’t
see the point of writing a blog, particularly since the handful of friends
and family that might check it out didn’t really have an interest in stocks
in the first place. But I decided to give it a shot and did my first post on
March27,2005.
Fromtheverybeginning,Imademyblog—whichIinitiallycalledTech-
nicallySpeaking,butlaterrenamedSlopeofHope—allaboutmyowntrad-
ingideas.Forthemostpart,IwouldpostchartsandtalkabouthowIfelt
aboutthesecharts,whetherIwasbuyingorsellingthem,andwhatkinds
ofstoppriceIwasusing.Iwouldalsoperiodicallypostthekindsofthings
youwouldseeonanypersonalblog,suchasfunnyvideos,anecdotesfrom
mylife,andtheoccasionalpicture.
As I predicted, my blog’s traffic—if one could even call it that—was
onlyaboutahundredviewsperday.AlmostnooneknewaboutSlope,but
I kept doing posts on a regular basis. Generally speaking, I would do one
postperday,althoughonoccasionImightdoacoupleofposts.Itwasrare
that I would skip a day, since even with a small audience I felt a certain
obligationtoputsomethingnewup.
Astheyearswenton,trafficwentfromafewhundredviewstoafew
thousand to a few tens of thousands. As the traffic grew, I began to post
more actively (since the need to keep the blog stocked with fresh con-
tentwassomethingIfeltmorekeenly),andmoreimportant,conversation
withintheblogbecamemoreactive.Inmyblog’sfirstyear,Iwouldgetex-
citedifanyoneatallwouldpostacomment.BythetimeSlopewaspopular,
itwasgettingover1,000commentseveryday.
The reason I am bringing this story up is to stress the importance of
community.Ihavebeenpartoftheonlinesocialnetworkscenesince1981,
whichwasaquarter-centurybefore“socialnetwork”wasacommonplace
term. And as much as the technology has changed over those years, the
natureoftheinteractionreallyhasn’tchangedthatmuch.Thekindsofin-
teractions,camaraderie,andinsidejokesIrememberfromCompuServe’s
CBRadiochatroomwaslittledifferentthanthemostmoderndiscussion
platformontheInternet.
WhatIwouldencourageyoutodoisgotowww.SlopeOfHope.comin
your browser and join the discussion. Reading the blog and participating
are free, and you’ll probably find that the topics being discussed and the
articles being shared are instructive to your trading. The blog also has a
reputationforhavingabearishbendtoit,whichiswhyI’mmakingapoint
ofmentioningitinthischapter.
Speaking for myself as a trader, there are two major benefits I have
received from doing the blog: first, since I have a large audience, I think
much more deeply and critically about any trading ideas I have than if

P1:OTA
c17 JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 8:31 Printer:Yettocome
480 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
I only had to convince myself of their wisdom. Second, the audience on
theblogmakesaterrificsoundingboardforideasandknowledgebasefor
tradinginformation.It’slikehavinganon-stopconventionofactivetraders
constantly talking, sharing, and guiding one another. The collective mind
ofthebloghasbeeninvaluabletome,andIamveryproudoftheculture
that I have cultivated over the years on Slope of Hope. I hope to see you
there.

P1:OTA
c18 JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 8:33 Printer:Yettocome
C H A P T E R 18
A Practical
Guide to Trading
I
n this book, we’ve covered a lot of ground with respect to technical
analysis,charting,andtheProphetChartsproduct.Therearehundreds
ofbookswrittenaboutotheraspectsoftrading,includingbooksabout
technical indicators, the psychology of trading, futures, options, and just
abouteveryotherimaginablesubject.
Weshallnotendeavortoincorporatethevastknowledgeandinforma-
tionfromthosebookshere,sinceitistheprincipalgoalofthisvolumeto
makeyoucomfortableandconfidentusingProphetCharts.However,there
aresomebasicguidelinesaboutanykindoftradingthatwillbehelpfulto
most people who decide totrade, beitprofessionally or casually, and we
willreviewthoseinthisfinalchapter.
TRADING RULES
It is often tempting for people to keep a list of their own trading rules,
particularly as they generate losses they regret and wish to avoid in the
future. Keeping a diary of trading experiences is a valuable exercise, but
what often happens with a list of rules is that the list grows so long and
arcane as to be almost useless. The old saying about how you can never
stepintothesamestreamtwiceholdstruefortrading,andoverthemonths
andyearsthatyouaretrading,youwillbefacedwithanever-endingsetof
changingcircumstances.
I’ve got my own list, but it is short and sweet. I ignore some of these
rulesfromtimetotime,andvirtuallyeverytimeIdo,Iregretit.Ifoneday
481

P1:OTA
c18 JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 8:33 Printer:Yettocome
482 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
Icanfollowtheserulesconsistently,I’llbeamuchbettertraderforit.An
acronymfortherulesbelowisSOBFEES,whichisappropriateconsider-
inghowmanytearswerespentattainingthem.
(cid:1)
Stops—Astoppricemustbeinplaceatalltimesforallpositions.
(cid:1)
Opening Bell—No new positions should be initiated in the first
30minutesofanytradingsession.Inaddition,after-hourstradingisto
beavoidedaltogether,sincethevolumeisterriblythinandthusprone
toeasymanipulation.
(cid:1)
Balance—Thisoneisthehardestofalltodefine,butbecauseitisim-
possible to know with certainty the future direction of the market, a
balancebetweenbullishandbearishpositionsisthemostprudent.In
addition, if you are heavily weighted, either bullish or bearish, and if
themarketmovesstronglyinyourfavorintraday,youshouldconsider
taking on a large opposite day-trade position for insurance profits in
casethatintradaymovereverses.
(cid:1)
Freshness—Positions should be regularly refreshed for the sake of
updated stops. This is especially important when the market has
movedinyourdirectionameaningfulamountsothatyoucanlockin
someprofitswithtighterstops.
(cid:1)
Emotional Awareness—Use emotional awareness to your advan-
tage,understandingthatfearoftenaccompaniesreversalsinyourfavor
andhubrisoftenaccompaniesreversalsagainstyourpositions.
(cid:1)
Exits—The only acceptable exit is either being stopped out of a
positionorreachingatargetpricethathasacleartechnicalrationale,
and even in cases of the latter, partial exits are preferable to outright
closes.
(cid:1)
Sizing—Initial position sizing must be consistent among instrument
typesirrespectiveofanticipatedopportunity.
Followingtheserulesconsistentlyisn’teasy.ButeveryyearIgetalittle
betteratit,andeveryyearIdobetterinmytrading.Iurgeyoutoconsider
makingtheserulesanimportantpartofyourtradinglife.
Let us now examine some of these rules more deeply and from a dif-
ferentanglewiththreesimplecomponents:howtoopenaposition,howto
holdaposition,andhowtocloseaposition.
HOW TO OPEN A POSITION
When traders open up a position, they are at their most optimistic. There
are many different profit possibilities available: the classic Buy Low/Sell

P1:OTA
c18 JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 8:33 Printer:Yettocome
APracticalGuidetoTrading 483
High;theoft-ignoredBuyHigh/SellHigher(suchasisthecasewithstrong
performersthatseemtooexpensivetomuchoftheinvestingpublic);and
forshort-sellers,SellHigh/BuyLow.
No matter what your disposition is on a stock, there are five easy-to-
followrulesthatwillprobablysaveyoualotoftroubleandmoney.
Don’t Enter a Trade in the First 30 Minutes
of the Day
Althoughyoumaybeeagertojumpintoatradetheverymomentthemar-
ket opens, it is wise not to do so. There is a tremendous amount of noise
inthefirst30minutesofthetradingday.Amazingly,asignificantpercent-
ageofstockordersareplacedevenbeforetheopeningbell.Thiscreatesa
ratherdistortedpictureofthemarketinthefirstpartoftheday.
Itis,ofcourse,allrighttoletastopordercloseoutapositionforyou
(moreonthislater)inthefirst30minutes.Afterall,itisthejobofastop
order to get you out of a trade if it needs to do so. But letting the smoke
clear out of the market is essential before you enter any new positions.
Evenifyoupayalittlemoreforastockbywaitingoutthefirsthalfhour,it
willbeimmaterialifthepositionturnsouttobeagoodone.
Pay a Good Price
Thismayseemlikeabsurdadvice,akintoneverlosemoney.Butthepoint
is simply this: when you examine a chart, you have an opportunity to see
whatconstitutesanattractivepriceforasecurity.Thiswilldependstrictly
on the chart, so there is no predetermined rule for all securities. If, for
example, a stock explodes out of a basing pattern and quickly rises from
its former resistance level of $15 to $25, you may decide to wait until the
stockis$17orlessbeforepurchasingit.Itmayneverreachthatlevelagain,
andyoumayfindyourselfdeniedtheopportunityofprofitingfromfuture
growth.Butrushingintoastockjustafterithashadamajorpriceascent
mayputyouinapositionofunnecessaryrisk.
Thekeyistomakeadecisionforyourself(preferablynotduringmar-
ket hours, so that you can calmly and rationally decide what a fair price
wouldbe)astowhatpriceyouarewillingtopayforthesecurity.Youwant
to seek a good risk/reward ratio. The risk is measured by calculating the
priceyouwouldpayforasecurityversusthepriceatwhichyouwouldbe
stoppedoutoftheposition;therewardisbasedonthedifferencebetween
thetargetpriceforthesecurityandthepriceyouwouldpayforit.
For example, assume you were willing to pay $16 for a stock with a
targetpriceof$36andastoppriceof$14.Theriskis$2andthepotential
reward is $20, which is a risk/reward ratio of 10. In other words, you are

P1:OTA
c18 JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 8:33 Printer:Yettocome
484 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
risking$1forevery$10inrewardyouareseeking.That’saveryattractive
ratio.Ontheotherhand,itisunlikelyyouwouldwanttobuyintoastockat
$34withastoppriceof$15andatargetpriceof$40.Eventhoughthere’s
still a potential profit to be had, the risk/reward profile doesn’t make it
worthwhile.
You cannot control how high the stock will go, but you can certainly
controlwhatyoupayforit.Therefore,youhavemuchmoresayintherisk
youarewillingtoundertakeasopposedtotherewardyoumayormaynot
make. Determine your price in advance and don’t pay anything higher, as
temptingasitmightbe.Itoftenpaystowaitforthestocktoreturntothe
levelyouseek.
Trade Only Active Securities
Althoughtherearemanytensofthousandsofstocksandoptionsthattrade
intheU.S.equitymarkets,onlyafewthousandofthemtradeinsignificant
enough volume to be worthwhile. Although you may find a chart with a
very alluring pattern, be sure to check its average daily volume to ensure
youdon’tgetstuckwithasecuritythathastoothinamarket.
The problem with a thin market is twofold: first, there is typically a
substantialbid/askratio.Inotherwords,foraheavilytradedsecurity,you
will enjoy a very tight bid/ask ratio. The NASDAQ 100 index (QQQQ), for
example, might trade with a bid of $36.02 and an ask of $36.03, because
there are so many people making a market in this security that a penny
spread is sufficient. On the other hand, a security that trades just a few
thousandsharesadaymighthaveabidof$43.20andanaskof$45.00.This
meansthatthemomentyouentertheposition,youhavea$1.80pershare
lossonyourhands.
Theotherproblemisthatyouarefarmorevulnerabletosomeonegun-
ningforyourstopprice.Asyouwillreadnext,havingastoppriceiscrucial
forresponsibletrading.Butifamarketisextremelythin,itbecomesvery
littletroubleforothersinthemarkettopushthemarketeitherupordown
andexecuteordersbasedonexistingstopprices.Youwillnotexperience
thiskindofprobleminactivelytradedshares.
As for what defines “actively traded,” securities that trade at least a
millionsharesadayarebest,butataminimum,youshouldavoidanything
thattradeslessthan250,000sharesperdayunlessthechartissospectac-
ularthatitisworththeextrarisk.
Have a Stop and Target Determined in Advance
Just as you should have a price you are willing to pay determined in ad-
vance,youshouldlikewisefigureoutastoppriceandatargetprice.

P1:OTA
c18 JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 8:33 Printer:Yettocome
APracticalGuidetoTrading 485
Asareminder,astoppriceisapricebelowwhich(or,ifyouareshort,
abovewhich)amarketorderwillbeinstantlyexecuted.Forinstance,let’s
say you bought 5,000 shares of Apple (AAPL) at $50, and you set a stop
priceof$47.99.AslongasAAPLtradesat$48orabove,yourorderwillnot
beexecuted.Butifanytradeat$47.99orlowergoesthrough,therewillbe
an instant order submitted to the market to sell your position at the best
availableprice.
Thereasonstopsaresocrucialisthattheyallowyoutodispassionately
getoutofbadtrades.Youshouldnever,everhaveapositionwithoutastop
price. In fact, the moment you get your order filled, you should place the
stoporder.Itisfartootemptingtotalkyourselfoutofsellingastockifit
fallsandyoudon’thaveastoporderinplace.Byautomatingtheprocess,
youremovetheemotionalelementfromgettingoutofabadtrade.
The target price is less important, because it is much harder to judge
howfarastockwillgo,anditislikelythatifastockmovesinthedirection
you anticipate, you will update your target. But a target is important to
judgetherisk/rewardratioofapotentialposition.
Ifyouaretradingoptions,thereisaspecialpoint.Itisn’twisetoplace
astoporderbasedontheoptionpriceitself.Optionsaretypicallyfartoo
thinlytradedtomakethisareasonableapproach.Whatmakesmoresense
istogowithabrokerthatofferscontingentorders.Thismeansthatifthe
underlyingsecurityfallsaboveorbelowacertainprice,thentheorderto
closetheoptionpositionisplaced.Stocksarefar,farmoreheavilytraded
thantheiroptions,sothisisabsolutelythebestwaytogotoprotectyour
optionpositions.
Trade Only Based on Completed Patterns
Patterns do not form overnight. They take weeks, months, or even years
to form. And when they are about 70 percent to 80 percent complete, it
becomeseasytoseewhatpatternmightultimatelytakeshape.
In a situation like this, it is very tempting to enter a trade based on
the supposition that a pattern will complete. For example, perhaps you
are looking at a head and shoulders chart that has the left shoulder, the
head, and about half of the right shoulder. You can clearly see what the
pattern would look like if it were to complete as expected. You can also
seethatyouwillmakemoremoneygettingintothepositionnow,sincethe
area between the neckline and the current price of the stock represents
thatmuchmoreprofittoyou.Inotherwords,youwanttobeatthecrowd
beforetheyrealizethepatternhasbroken.
Astemptingasthisis,youshouldwaitforthepatterntocompletebe-
foretakingaction.Anincompletepatternisn’tapatternatall—it’ssimply
something that may become a pattern. You will find that jumping the gun

P1:OTA
c18 JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 8:33 Printer:Yettocome
486 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
like this will backfire so many times that it simply doesn’t become worth
the extra profit you might make. So wait for the trend line to be crossed,
thenecklinetobeviolated,andtheresistanceleveltobeovercome.Don’t
rushinbeforethechartisreadyforyou.
HOW TO HOLD A POSITION
Onceyou’reinaposition,havingsteadfastlyfollowedthesefiverules,now
whatdoyoudo?Theeasiestthingtodoissitbackandletyourpositions
takecareofthemselves.Ifyourstockreachesyourtarget,terrific,youcan
cash in your profits. If your stock gets stopped out, that’s okay, because
you’vemanagedyourlossandkeptitreasonable.Buttoooftenpeoplemed-
dleintheirportfoliosandcausethemselvesharmtheyneverintended.Let
usreviewsomerulestoavoidthis.
Let the Winners Run
Thisisoneofthemostbasicrulesofferedtotraders(morecompletely,cut
yourlossesandletyourwinnersrun).Itwouldseemobviousforpeopleto
letprofitsgrow.Thereasonthisoftendoesn’thappenisbasedonahuman
impulse articulated by another old saying: You’ll never go broke taking a
profit.
Peoplelovetotakeprofits,andoftentheytakethemfartoosoon.For
every person who enjoyed a 1,000 percent return on a stock, there are
hundreds of other people who bought the exact same stock at the exact
sametime,tooka10percentprofitmandfelttheywerefinancialgeniuses
(untilthestockkeptmovinghigher).Itfeelsgoodtotakeaprofit,because
itmeans you not only get topocket the extra cash but also you eliminate
theriskofholdingthepositioninthefirstplace.
Unfortunately,insteadoflettingwinnersrunandcuttinglossesshort,
itishumannaturetoletlosersrunandcutwinnersshort.Apersonholding
alosingstockwillalwaysfindmanyreasonstoholdontothatposition,hop-
ingthatitwillturnaround,andapersonwithaprofithastheurgetobank
thatprofitasswiftlyaspossible.Butsmallprofitscanneverpayforlarge
losses,andintheend,takingthisapproachwillcreateashrinkingportfolio.
Sowhatyoushoulddoinsteadissimplyhangontothepositionaslong
as it doesn’t violate your stop price (or until such time as it reaches your
target).Thisishowmultihundredpercentreturnsarecreated.
Let Your Stops Manage Your Losers
Stop orders are your friend. Placing a stop order the moment you are in
apositiondoesacoupleofverygoodthingsforyou.First,itrelievesyou

P1:OTA
c18 JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 8:33 Printer:Yettocome
APracticalGuidetoTrading 487
fromthedutyofstaringatacomputerscreen,monitoringyourpositions.If
thestoppriceishit,you’llbetakenoutatonce.Second,itinjectsahealthy
dose of responsibility into your trading. Determining and setting a stop
price with a calm, rational, objective mind-set will save you a fortune in
thelongrun.
For years there has been a late-night TV ad for a kitchen appliance
wherethehostsaystotheaudience,“Setit,andforgetit!”Thisis,forthe
mostpart,alsotrueofstopordersforyourpositions.
Keep Your Stops Updated
Whenyouinitiallyestablishastopprice,youaredoingsoatapricebelow
the current value of the stock (or above the current value, if it is a short
position). But if the stock moves in the direction you anticipate, the stop
price is going to become less and less relevant. As a position matures, a
stop price’s function should change from minimizing your loss to instead
preservingyourprofit.
Forexample,ifyoubought1,000sharesofa$20stockandsetastop
price of $18, you have $2,000 at risk. If the stock moves up over time to
$100, it would be silly to continue to have an $18 stop in place. There is
noreasontorisktheentiretyofyourprofitsafterastockhasmovedthat
much.
Instead,itpaystocheckyourchartsonaregularbasisandupdatethe
stoppricesbasedonthemostrecentchartactivity.Forexample,let’ssay
thesamestockjustmentionedtradedatabout$25forseveralweeksbefore
moving higher. You may decide to update your stop price to $24.99 since
thereseemstobeastrongnewlevelofsupportat$25.Youcouldtherefore
lockin$5ofprofitandstillallowthestocktogohigher.
Somebrokersoffertrailingstops,whichbasethestoppriceonaper-
centageofthestock’scurrentvalue.Thisismuchlikelayingdownamov-
ingaverageontopofachartandstatingtosellthestockifitcrossesbelow
thatmovingaverage.Ifyoudon’thavetimetoupdateyourstopsregularly,
thisisanicecompromise,sinceitautomatestheactandensuresthatyou
canlockinsomeprofits.Theonlytroubleisthattrailingstopsaren’treally
based on the pattern per se, since they are little more than a raw moving
average based on recent price activity. But they are certainly better than
leavingyourinitialfixedstoppriceinplaceforever.
HOW TO CLOSE A POSITION
Saint Teresa of Avila wrote: “More tears are shed over answered prayers
than unanswered ones.” A trader might paraphrase that by saying: “More

P1:OTA
c18 JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 8:33 Printer:Yettocome
488 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
tears are shed over profits than losses.” The reason is that a closed prof-
itablepositionoftengoesontoawildlyprofitableposition,andyoumissed
mostoftheride.
Therewerefiverulesforopeningapositionandthreerulesforholding
a position, but there’s really only one rule for closing a position: close it
whenyourtargethasbeenreachedoryourstophasbeenviolated.It’sas
simpleasthat.
Neverdoanadhocclose.Inotherwords,don’tdecideinthemoment
to rush out of a position for any reason—that reason might be the thrill
ofasuddenprofit,theshockofasuddenloss,oranythinginbetween.As
longasyourstopisinplace,letthepositionrun,andifyourtargetismet,
terrific—close it out. Until then, allow the seeds you’ve planted to grow,
undisturbed.
When you do close a position, you may want to jot down some notes
aboutwhatyoulearnedfromthatparticulartrade.Ifyoulostmoney,can
you figure out if your analysis was wrong? If you made money, are there
things you did correctly that you want to emphasize for future trades?
There is always something to be learned from a properly closed position,
whetheryoumademoneyorlostit.Overthecourseoftime,thesetrading
lessonswillformahelpfulmosaicforyourongoingcareer.
TIME AND MONEY
One aspect of being a trader that is simultaneously appealing and nerve-
wracking is that the results a trader generates are just about the purest
reflection of whatever talent the trader might have. In other words, the
talentisalmostperfectlycorrelatedwiththeresult.
Thisisnotthecasewithmostotherendeavors.Let’ssayyouareafifth-
gradeschoolteacher.Youhavecertaintalentsthataregermanetothejob:
patience, discipline, knowledge, a rapport with young people, a rapport
withtheirparents,theabilitytowakeupandgettoschoolontime,andso
forth.Therearedozensofattributesthatfactorintoyourpotentialsuccess
inthatoccupation.
Howdoesonemeasuretheresult?That’satoughquestionrightthere.
Itcouldbemeasuredbythechangeintestscoresfromthestartoftheyear
totheend,bytherelativeperformanceofthatclassversussimilarlyaged
classesinthesameschool,bytheresultsofasatisfactionsurveythatthe
students fill out, or a similar survey by the parents. As you can see, even
defining“success”inthisoccupationisveryhard.
Similar challenges would be seen for a lawyer, a dentist, or a brick-
layer.

P1:OTA
c18 JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 8:33 Printer:Yettocome
APracticalGuidetoTrading 489
Inaddition,whathappensbetweeninput(skills)andoutput(results)is
subjecttotheinteractionofthepersonwiththeenvironment.Inthecase
of the teacher, the environment is mainly the students and the school’s
culture;foralawyer,itisclientsandcoworkers;forabricklayer,itisthe
jobsite,thetools,andothersubcontractors.
But the perception of success in any given occupation can be fudged
quiteabit.YoucanbealousyCongressmanbutstillseemquitecompetent
andgetelectedrepeatedly.Youcanbeacrummyteacherbutthrivesimply
becauseyourstudentslikehowpermissiveyouare.
A trader, though, really has just one asset: their ability to apply their
edge, whatever it might be, in the never-ending turmoil that represents a
givenmarket.Theiredgemightbeskillfulcharting,insightfulfundamental
analysis,oradeepunderstandingofacertainindustry.
But since a trader’s measurement of success is simple—their profit/
loss statement—there’s no fudge factor allowed. All you’ve got is talent,
andallyou’vegottoshowforitisanumericresult.
Solet’ssayyouwerehiredtositonamanholecovertopreventzom-
bies from coming out of it. You are being paid 100 percent for your time.
Youareapplyingnotalentatalltothisoccupation;theonlyassetyouare
bringingtothejobisyourbody’smass.(Itcouldbearguedthatsomefolks
aremoretalentedthanotherseveninthisrespect,butlet’skeepitsimple!)
Ifyouareasalesclerkatahigh-endclothingstore,youarebeingpaid
partly for your time (someone needs to be there to make the place look
openforbusinessandtomakesurepeopledon’tjuststealthings)butalso
partly for your talent (your knowledge of clothes, what looks good on a
particularperson,etc.).
No one is going to pay for a trader’s time. You can sit there all year
long,workingyourtailoff,andifthetalentisn’tthere,you’renotgoingto
getastipend. Infact,youaregoingtoworkveryhardfortheprivilegeof
losingmoney.
Ofcourse,themarket’sbehaviorhasadirectrelationshiptowhatkinds
ofresultsyourtalentbrings,butthatisthebiggesttaskofall:honingyour
skillssothatthemarket’sbehaviorbecomes,ultimately,irrelevanttoyour
abilitytogenerateprofits.
THERE IS NO HOLY GRAIL
Myphilosophyontradinghasthisimportantpremise:it’sallaboutthere-
lationship between you and the market. The market you cannot control,
but yourself—to a degree—you can. And it is the complexity of yourself
vis-a`-visanever-changingmarketthatmakestheentireenterpriseofbeing
atradersimultaneouslyfascinating,exasperating,andthought-provoking.

P1:OTA
c18 JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 8:33 Printer:Yettocome
490 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
Instead of latching on to one particular trading method, I have, over
the years, adopted a handful of methods, and I’ve put them into my own
uniquetradingstew.Iamrefiningitallthetime,weightingsomevectorsI
ammonitoringmore,weightingsomeless.Buttheconcoctionisbestsuited
formeandwhoIam.Itwouldn’tworkaswellformostotherpeople.
It’simportanttoembraceone’sperpetualignorance.Iseekmasteryby
considering myself a dunce who is in search of knowledge. By no means
am I suggesting piling on rule after rule, method after method. I view the
actoftradingasnotmuchdifferentthanmakinganongoingseriesofbread
loaves.I’mchangingtherecipealittleeachtime,andI’mkneading,knead-
ing, kneading the dough (that is, my positions, their weighting, and their
stops) to try to get the result I’m after: metaphorically, a delicious loaf of
bread;realistically,anice,outsizeprofit.
Thefactthatlearningtobeagreattraderisaverypersonaljourneyis
why I stopped buying business books many years ago. When I was in my
late teens and early twenties, I bought business books all the time. I fig-
uredtheywouldhelpmebecomeamoresuccessfulbusinessperson.They
didn’t.
I’vegotshelvesofthesebooks,andIdon’tthinkIlearnedathingfrom
anyofthem.It’snotbecauseIdidn’treadthemcarefully.Butmosthow-to
booksarebasedonthenotionthatifyoudowhatthispersondid,youwill
be like this person. But you know what? That person is that person. He
isn’t you. And the circumstances he found himself in (whether he’s Jack
Welch,TomPeters,SteveJobs,MarkZuckerberg,orGod-knows-who-else)
are unique to that person. If you want to read a biography, great, read a
biography.Butifyouwanttobelikethatperson,well,thatspot’salready
beentaken.
Thisisn’ttosaythere’snothingtolearnfrombooks.ButIthinkbooks
relatedtobusinessortradingarebestappliedtoeither(1)theactualme-
chanics of trading techniques and their application and (2) learning from
the successes and failures of others in order to template those events to
yourownpersonalexperience.Idon’thaveanyillusionsthatI’mgoingto
beaPaulTudorJones,butIdodrawinspirationfromhisresilienceinthe
faceofdefeatandhissuccessfuluseofpastmarketstounderstandpresent
ones.
CHARTING YOUR WAY TO PROFITS
Makingmoneyinthemarketisn’teasy.Somuchofhumannatureisgeared
topoortradinghabitsthatitisdifficulttoovercomethechallengestobeing
agoodtrader.

P1:OTA
c18 JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 8:33 Printer:Yettocome
APracticalGuidetoTrading 491
You have some advantages on your side now, however. You have a
verypowerfulchartingtoolatyourdisposaltocalmlyandrationallyjudge
securities. You have seen hundreds of examples of technical analysis in
real-lifechartstounderstandhowtoobserveandapplytheselessons.And
you know some critically important rules of the road that lead to sound
trading.
Goodluckinyourendeavors,andmakeapointofrevisitingthisbook
whenever you need a refresher. I hope it will be a powerful guide as you
chartyourwaytomoreprofitableandconsistenttrading.
And stay in touch! You can learn more by visiting my blog (www.
slopeofhope.com), and if you want to write me, I am at trader.tim.
knight@gmail.com.

P1:OTA
appA JWBT295-Knight May25,2010 10:41 Printer:Yettocome
A P P E N D I X A
The Kirk
Report Interview
Charles Kirk is the widely read blogger who writes The Kirk Re-
port (www.thekirkreport.com/). In August 2009, he conducted a
lengthy interview with me, which he has kindly permitted me to
republishhere.Ithinkthisinterviewdoesagoodjobofanswering
alotofquestionsaboutmytradingstyle.
P
eoplereadtradingblogsforallsortsofreasons.Somedoittolearn
somethingnew,othersdoittofindnewtradingideasandmanydo
itsimplyforentertainment.Forme,TimKnight’sSlopeofHopehas
beenagreatsourceofinterestingperspectivesaswellaspureenjoyment.
Tim is an interesting fellow and his blog is worthwhile. He has been
activelytradingsince1987andusestechnicalanalysisasakeypartofhis
approach.However,youcanexpecttoseemuchmorethanchartsthere.In
fact,everytimeyouvisithisblogyoucancountonTimsayingorsharing
somethingthatislikelytoamuseyouand/oratleastgetyouthinkingabout
something. His perspectives are always fresh, witty, and clearly different
than the typical “we’re always in a bull market” garbage found within the
mainstreamfinancialpress.That’swhyTim’sbloghasalwaysbeenamong
theblogsIreadandoneofthemainreasonswhyI’veinvitedTimtopartic-
ipateinthismonth’sQ&A.
Tim’s“SlopeofHope”isoneofthosemust-readblogsforanyoneinter-
estedinthemarket.
WesincerelyhopeyoufindthisQ&Abothenjoyableandhelpful.
492

P1:OTA
appA JWBT295-Knight May25,2010 10:41 Printer:Yettocome
AppendixA:TheKirkReportInterview 493
Q&A WITH TIM KNIGHT
Kirk:Hi,Tim.Thank-youfortakingthetimeawayfromyourdailytrading
routinetoanswerourquestions.Ispeakformanymemberswhohave
a great deal of respect for you and we sincerely welcome you to this
Q&Aseries!
TimKnight:Thanks,Kirk.It’sjustaboutimpossibletolookatalistoftop
tradingblogsandnotseetheKirkReport,soit’sreallyanhonorforme
tobementionedonyoursite.
Kirk:Forthosewhodon’tknowyou,pleasetellusalittleaboutyourpro-
fessionalandeducationalbackground.
Tim Knight: My educational background is nothing glorious—I was ea-
gertogetintotheworldofwork,soIgotmyfouryeardegreeintwo
and a half years from Santa Clara University, which is a Jesuit col-
lege in California (and the state’s first higher education institution).
Myexperiencewithcomputers,though,beganlongbeforethat—Igot
serious about computers back in 1980, and I wrote my first book
aboutthem—TheWorldConnection—whenIwas16yearsold.Iwent
on to write twenty different books about computers, which allowed
me to pay for my own college education and living expenses, and I
had abrief stintwith“real”jobs at Apple Computer and Montgomery
Securities.
The first trade I ever placed was on Black Monday in 1987; per-
haps that experience etched bearishness into my head permanently.
I traded casually for years, but I didn’t get really serious about it
until 1992 when I founded Prophet, which is where I’ve been ever
since.
Kirk:Howdidyougetinterestedintrading?
Tim Knight: This may seem likea random reference, but it’snot. When I
wasayoungboygrowingupinLouisiana,whereitrainsalot,Iwould
always get mesmerized by the beads of water bobbing up and down
the side of the car’s window. Since the car was in motion, the water
dropletswouldjiggleupanddown,clingingtothewindow,andwatch-
ingtherandommovementofthewaterfascinatedme.
Maybe that’s why I was predisposed to technical analysis. I like to
see relationships of time and motion, and I find the ability to predict
the future to be empowering. I fail at those predictions part of the
time, obviously, but I am on a constant quest to improve my skills
as a trader, one of the most important being to draw probabilistic
conclusionsfromagivenchart.
Kirk:Howwouldyoudescribeyourstyleoftrading?

P1:OTA
appA JWBT295-Knight May25,2010 10:41 Printer:Yettocome
494 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
Tim Knight: I guess the words I’d use to describe my trading would be
“technical analysis-based,” “swing,” and “broadly directional.” I use
charts pretty much exclusively as the basis of my rationale on any
given position, and I’m looking for broad moves either up or down.
I don’t get fancy with my positions—just straight-up equity plays or
options.
Kirk: In an average week how many trades do you make? What is your
average hold time and how many positions do you have open at any
giventime?
Tim Knight: It really depends on the week, but I’d say a weekly range
would be anywhere from a couple dozen trades to maybe a hundred.
The number of positions I have open at any one time can range from
asfewaseightytoasmanyasacouplehundred.
Kirk:That’sprettyactive,Tim.I’dgocrazytryingtomanageaportfolioof
morethanadozenstocks!Whatwouldyousayisyouraveragewin/loss
ratioforyourtrades?
Tim Knight: That’s something I’ve never really tracked, since I’m much
more interested in my equity curve. I’ve got plenty of losers, believe
me,butIgooutofmywaytokeepthemonthesmallside.
Kirk:Howhasyouroverallperformancebeenrecently,aswellasthepast
fewyears?
Tim Knight: I’ve been doing pretty well, but so far 2008 was my stand-
out year. At the end of 2008, my personal account was up something
like+180percent,andmy401(k),whichisself-directed,wasupabout
+438percent.
Kirk:Nodoubtyourbearishperspectiveshelpedgeneratethoserecentre-
turns! Tell us a little about your initial learning process and anything
significantyoulearnedwithinthefirstyearortwooftrading.
TimKnight:Mylearningprocesswasalotlongerthanayearortwo—I’ve
been at this twenty years, and I’m still learning! I think the most im-
portant thing I’ve learned is this—the synopsis of what it takes to be
agoodtradercaneasilyfitononepage,ifnotoneparagraph.Butac-
tuallyexecutingthoseprinciplesconsistentlyissomethingwhichruns
completelyagainstbasichumannature,soitisatremendouschallenge
formostpeopletoactuallyadheretothoseprinciples.Theparadoxof
tradingisthatwhatfeelsrightisusuallythewrongdecision.
Kirk: Indeed, this is something we’ve learned from others like William
Eckhardt who said that “if you’re playing for emotional satisfaction,
you’re bound to lose, because what feels good is often the wrong
thingtodo.”So,wheredoyouthinkmosttradersgowronginthefirst
coupleofyears?

P1:OTA
appA JWBT295-Knight May25,2010 10:41 Printer:Yettocome
AppendixA:TheKirkReportInterview 495
TimKnight:Allthe“classic”mistakesonehearsabout—offthetopofmy
head, I’d say averaging down, not having stops, over-committing to a
particular position. At its core, however, the biggest mistake is that
peopletakethemostimportantruleoftrading—CutLossesShortand
LetWinnersRun—anddoexactlytheopposite.Takingprofitsquickly
(becauseitfeelsgood)andlettinglosersrun(becauseitishardtoad-
mitdefeat)ishowmostpeopleoperate,andit’sunderstandable,given
thewayhumanbeingstick.
Kirk: After the initial learning curve, what do you think marked the next
stageofyourprogressinbecomingasuccessfultrader?
TimKnight:TherealseachangeformecamewhenIstartedblogging.Af-
terIsoldProphet,mywifethoughtpeoplemightfinditinterestingto
read what I had to say about the market. Since I didn’t have an audi-
ence,Ithoughtitwouldbeawasteoftime,butIfinallystarteddoing
a post a day. The blog grew really slowly, at first just read by friends
andfamily.ButImadearealhabitofit,andthepressureofbeing“on
stage” with my trading made me a much more astute trader. I had to
thinkhardaboutwhatIwasdoing,becauseIdon’tgetmyjolliesoutof
lookingfoolish,andIwantedtowritethingsanddothingswhichmade
senseinthelongrun.
Kirk:So,inaway,theblogheldyouaccountableforyourideasandanalysis
muchlikemanyfindthroughtradingjournals.
Sinceyoubegantradingin1987,doyoufeellikeyouhaveperfected
yoursystem?
Tim Knight: I don’t have a system, and even if I thought I did, I’d never
claim to have perfected it. The markets are ever-changing, just like
anything else. An amazing campaign manager from 1968 might find
himselfcompletelylostintoday’spoliticalworld,andasuperbmutual
fund manager from 1975 might be a colossal failure today. To me,
the entire act of trading is a constant examination of the relationship
between (1) you and (2) the market. That may sound simple, but to
mywayofthinkingit’sjustascomplexandchallengingasanydeeply
personalrelationship.
Kirk: Over the past few years, what would you say is the most significant
lessonyou’velearnedaboutyourselfandtrading?
Tim Knight:Speakingformyself,I’dsaythebiggestlesson—or,moreac-
curately, challenge—is fighting my bearish tendencies. I’m sure the
“permabulls” had a devil of a time in 2000–2002 and mid 2007–early
2009, but by the same token, we bearish types had it really rough in
alltheotheryears.I’veworkedreallyhardtoopenmyeyesuptoboth
bullish and bearish opportunities, going so far as to add a feature in

P1:OTA
appA JWBT295-Knight May25,2010 10:41 Printer:Yettocome
496 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
ProphetChartswhichliterallyflipsitupsidedownsopeoplewith“bear
onthebrain”likemecanviewchartsmoreobjectively.
Kirk:That’sveryinteresting,Tim.Ihaveoftenrecommendedotherstoflip
thechartupsidedowntodiscoveranybias.Frankly,I’msurprisedthat
more charting software doesn’t enable this feature. So, good for you
forrecognizingtheimportanceofunderstandingyourselfinrelationto
youranalysisofthecharts.
Also,IhavetotellyouthatIreallyloveitwhentraderslikeyouhave
provided their trading rules especially when they are concise and to
thepointasyouhavedone.
So,here’smyfirstquestion—howdoyousetyourstops?
Tim Knight: A lot of people ask me this, and my answer—it depends on
thechart—issurelyveryunsatisfying.Butitreallydoesdependonthe
chart,andIamveryspecificaboutwhereIplacestops;I’veneverused
trailingstopsoranythingelseautomaticlikethat.
The whole purpose of a stop is, once crossed, to tell me that my
analysis is wrong; in other words, it tells me that the rationale I used
togetintoagivenpositionisnolongervalid,andthusthetradeshould
nolongerbeheld.It’sassimpleasthat.
Kirk:Fairenough,Tim.You’vealsosaidthat“partialexitsarepreferableto
outrightcloses.”Canyoutakeusthroughatradeyou’vemaderecently
inordertoshowhowapartialexitwasthebestapproach?
Tim Knight: I can’t think of a recent one which springs to mind, but I’ll
give you a very simplistic hypothetical. Let’s say you bought 1,000
shares of a stock at $5, and you’re fortunate enough to see it move
up to $10. You aren’t certain if it’s going to go any higher, so you sell
halfyourposition,500shares,andrecaptureyourentireinitialinvest-
ment.Youarenowinaverypowerfulplace,psychologically,because
all of your risk capital has been eliminated: in other words, you can
let the position trade more freely (in spite of your uncertainty of its
direction) without being concerned about taking any kind of hit on
the position; added to which, it’s virtually impossible the stock will
find its way down to $0, so you are virtually guaranteed a profit. The
point is that if the stock eventually gets up to $25, you’ve got a won-
derful profit without having had to second-guess the position on the
wayup.
Kirk:Asthesayinggoes—whenindoubt,sellhalf—becauseifitkeepsgo-
ingup,youstillarerightbecauseyouhaveapositionon.Likewise,if
thestockgoesdownatleastyousoldsome.
So, do you believe in scaling into a new trading position? Why or
whynot?

P1:OTA
appA JWBT295-Knight May25,2010 10:41 Printer:Yettocome
AppendixA:TheKirkReportInterview 497
Tim Knight: Scaling intoa position makes sense fora couple of reasons:
first, it reduces your risk. If you are wrong, then the loss you take is
goingtobemoremodest,andifyouareright,then“averagingup”into
a winning trade is just as smart as “averaging down” a losing trade
is dumb. And second, I think it’s rare that a person enters a trade at
exactlytheperfecttime,soscalingintoitallowssomeforgiveness(and
lessstress)asthepositionhopefullystartstomoveinyourdirection.
Kirk:Doyoueveraveragedownintoalosingtrade?
Tim Knight:Ireallytrytoavoidthis,andI’mprettygoodaboutit,mainly
becausemystopsdotheworkforme.Ineverusea“mentalstop”—my
stop prices are real, and if something is not going my way, I’ll simply
betakenout.
Kirk:Asoutlinedbyyourtradingrules,yourtrendanalysisisbothsimple
andstraightforward—thatis,thetrendofthemarketisdefinedbythe
13-week EWA and 52-week EWA of the $SPX. Based on the relative
position of the 13-week EWA, the market is either Up-Trending (13-
week EWA above the 52-week) or Down-Trending, and no more than
20percentofthevalueofallyourpositionsmaybepositionedagainst
that trend at any one time. Where can traders track the EWA online
basedonthissimpletrendsystem?
Tim Knight: Well, it probably comes as no surprise that I use
ProphetCharts, and Iusethat product morethanany computer prod-
uct I’ve ever touched. There are, of course, other good sites on the
Internet,andquiteafewfolksonmybloguseStockCharts.com,which
isasiteI’vealwaysrespected.
Kirk:Ilikethatyou’veplacedarestrictionthatsaysthat20percentofyour
positionsmustnotbepositionedagainstthetrend.Howdidyouarrive
atthatnumberandwhydoyouthinkthat’simportant?
Tim Knight: It isn’t a number derived from any scientific method; it just
seemedrighttonotbe100percentinoneparticulardirection.During
bearmarkets,someextraordinarystockspushhigher,andduringbull
markets,somestocksarepronetofalling.SoIcameupwiththat80/20
splittogivemyselfsomelatitudeto“hedge”aportfolioinsteadofbeing
utterlybullishorbearish.
Kirk: To be clear, do you think that it is a good idea to always have 20
percentofyourassetspositionedagainsttheprevailingtrend?Whyor
whynot?
Tim Knight: I suppose there are a couple of good reasons. One of them
is that I believe in any given market, there are opportunities in both
directions, and it keeps you sharper as a trader to be able toplay po-
sitionsbothways.Secondly,let’sfaceit,alltrendseventuallyend,and

P1:OTA
appA JWBT295-Knight May25,2010 10:41 Printer:Yettocome
498 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
being able to capture a portion of a trend change will help soften the
blowtoyourotherpositions.Inotherwords,ifyou’re80percentlong
and 20 percent short, and the market starts to turn down in earnest,
the20percentshortsaregoingtobeahelpfulsave(andagoodsignal)
forthelosinglongs.
Kirk:Anotherrulesaysthatpositionsshouldberegularlyupdatedforthe
sakeofupdatedstops.Howdoyourecommendtradersdothis?
Tim Knight:It’salotofwork,butitdoesn’thavetobeadailyexercise.I
typicallydoa“cleansweep”ofallmystopswhenevertheindexeshave
movedinmydirectionsomemeaningfulamount.Forinstance,ifIhave
abunchofshortpositions,andtheDow30hasmoveddown,say,500
pointssinceIenteredthem,thenit’shightimeIgetinthereandreview
those charts, one by one, and tighten up those stops. This allows me
toatleastlockinsomepartialprofitsifI’mstoppedout,anditletsme
sleep easier at night knowing that I’m not going to expose myself to,
in this case, a subsequent 700 point rise in the Dow and see all those
profitsturnintolosses.
Kirk:Youalsohavearuleagainsttradingwithinthefirst30minutesofthe
trading day. Are there any other times you try to avoid and when are
youtypicallymostactive?
Tim Knight: The first 30 minutes are the only “hands off” time for me.
SometimespeopleaskifIpermitmystopstodotheirworkduringthat
half hour; absolutely! The point is for me not to be trading, but by all
meansmystopshavetobetheredoingtheirjob.
Thesedays,thelast90minutesofthetradingdayhavebecometheir
ownalternativeuniverse,althoughthatmaychangeatsomepoint.But
the “end of day run-up” has become almost a cliche´ in this market. I
also tend to back off during Fed days (FOMC announcements), since
the markets typically go completely spastic after the Fed announce-
ment,andittakesatleastanhourforthemtofigureoutwhichdirec-
tiontheywanttogo.
Kirk: Emotions are a large component of trading. Your rule is first to “be
aware”ofyouremotionsandtheimportanceofkeepingfearandhubris
incontrolinordertohavea“carefreeandfearless”stateofmind.This
iseasiersaidthandone.Inyourview,howdotraderslearnthelevelof
emotionalcontroltotradewell?
Tim Knight: The area of emotional control is something I think a person
canonlypartlyhandle,becausesomeofusaresimplymoreemotional
than others. Making money can be euphoric, and losing money can
be devastating, and swaying between those two feelings can be very
challenging for most individuals. My own “self-improvement course”

P1:OTA
appA JWBT295-Knight May25,2010 10:41 Printer:Yettocome
AppendixA:TheKirkReportInterview 499
inthisareaistoreadgoodbooksonthetopic.IreallylikeTradingIn
theZone,andI’mcurrentlyreadingEnhancingTradingPerformance
byDr.BrettSteenbarger.
Kirk:Yourlastrulespeaksofpositionsizingandthatitmust“beconsistent
among instrument types irrespective of anticipated opportunity.”
Canyouprovideanexampleofarecenttradeandexplainyourmethod
fordeterminingthesizerelativetoyourowntradingportfolio?
Tim Knight: Well, I really try to keep things simple. Given my current
portfolio size, I try to keep individual equity positions at $10,000, op-
tionspositionsat$5,000,andETFpositionsatanywherefrom$100,000
to $250,000, depending on how strongly I feel about its potential di-
rection. That’s probably about the least sophisticated portfolio man-
agement system on the planet, but it at least assures me that no
single equity’s surprise move is going to severely affect my overall
portfolio.
Kirk:Whatmistakesdoyouthinkmosttradersmakeconcerningposition
sizing?
Tim Knight: Probably looking for home runs—maybe they put all their
eggsintoonebasket.Tobehonest,Idon’treallyhaveexposuretothe
portfoliosofothers,sothisisjustspeculationonmypart.
Kirk:Asyou’vesaid,creatingrulesisgreat,butitisn’teasytofollowthem.
Inyourexperience,whichisthemostdifficultruletofollowandwhy?
TimKnight:Themostdifficultruletofollowistoletyourprofitsrun.That
one, for me, has been atrociously difficult. I can’t tell you how many
times I’ve taken a profit, patted myself on the back, and watched the
same position continue to move dramatically higher (or lower, in the
caseofshorts).
Kirk:Arethereanytechniquesthatyouareusingtoletwinnersrun?
TimKnight:ThecoretechniqueIuseforlettingmywinnersrunistokeep
my stop prices fresh. Assuming a position is moving in my direction,
Iwillperiodicallyratchetthestoppriceup(ordown,asthecasemay
be) to a technically significant level so that I can at least preserve a
portionofmyprofitsifthingsmoveagainstme.Thishasbeenforme
theonlyreliablewaytofighttheurgetotakeallmyprofits.Ihavefound
thistobemucheasieronbearishpositionsthanbullishones,sinceit
issometimeshardtoacceptthepossibilitythatsomethingonthelong
sidecanmoveuphundreds—oreventhousands—ofpercent.
Kirk:Nowthatwe’vetalkedaboutyourtradingrules,whataresomeofthe
key rules or factors that you consider before selecting any potential
tradingopportunity?

P1:OTA
appA JWBT295-Knight May25,2010 10:41 Printer:Yettocome
500 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
TimKnight:Ireallywanttherisk/rewardtobeinmyfavor,sothemostim-
portantthingtomeisthatthestoppriceisrelativelycloseandthepo-
tentialprofitisrelativelyfaraway(inotherwords,thepotentialprofit
dwarfs the potential loss, because I like operating from the assump-
tion that the trade will probably go wrong). One really great position
canmakeupforalotoftrading“sins”inthepast.
Kirk:Pleaseexplaintheprocessofhowyougoaboutfindingyourtrades.
Canyoutakeusthrougharelativelynewtradeofyoursfromthevery
beginning starting with how you discovered the idea to the first posi-
tionthroughthefinalsell?
Tim Knight: It’s all about organization. I’m a pretty organized person
by nature, and I’m pretty manic when it comes to my watch lists.
In ProphetCharts, I’ve got a series of watch lists set up, and stocks
movefromplacetoplacedependingonmydispositiontowardeachof
them.
First, I’ve got my “Core List,” which is the general holding bin for
stocks.Ifsomethinglookslikeit’sstartingto“gel”asagoodshortop-
portunity,I’llmoveittoawatchlistIcallBearPen,andifit’sstarting
tolookgoodonthelongside,itgoesintotheBullPen.Thatway,Ican
reallyfocusonthosetwoholdingpens.
If and when an item in those pens actually looks ready to trade, I’ll
move it to either Candidate Longs or Candidate Shorts, and once the
tradeisactuallyinplace,thesymbolwillmovetowhateverportfoliois
appropriate(Imanageseveralpersonalportfolios).Somywatchlists
areinaconstantmigratorystate.
As for actually looking for trading ideas, I follow about 800 stocks,
andthatgivesmealltheideasIneed.Ivirtuallyneverdoascanoruse
anyoftheotherservicesontheWebtosmokeouttradingideas,simply
becauseI’vealreadygotaverygooduniverseoftradableinstruments
thatIalreadyfollow.
Kirk:Whatwouldyousayareyourfavoritekindsoftechnicalsetups?
Tim Knight: The classic head and shoulders—both normal and
inverted—is probably my favorite. It’s pretty easy to identify, has a
goodrisk/rewardratio,andithasworkedoutwellformehistorically.
I also like upside breakouts with strong volume for bullish positions,
forobviousreasons.
Kirk:Inrecentyears,haveyoudiscoveredanynewpatternsthathavebeen
helpingyouachievemoresuccess?
Tim Knight:Itisn’tapattern,perse,butthere’saservicecalledRetrace-
ment Levels that was created by a regular reader on my blog which I
likequitealot.Thesearesimplyhorizontallevelsonvariousmarkets

P1:OTA
appA JWBT295-Knight May25,2010 10:41 Printer:Yettocome
AppendixA:TheKirkReportInterview 501
whichrepresentmeaningfulsupportandresistancelevels.Duringthe
insanityofautumn2008,Ifoundthemtobeindispensible,particularly
sincethemarketwassovolatile.
Kirk: I know you utilize Fibonacci in your analysis. In your experience,
whatisthestrengthandweaknessfromthistypeofanalysis?
Tim Knight:Theprincipalweaknessistheyhavetobeappliedcorrectly,
and that takes a certain amount of experience and an “eye” for the
chart.OfthefourFibonacci studiesinProphetCharts—retracements,
fan lines, arcs, and time series—I’ve found retracements to be by far
themostuseful.Fansworkfromtimetotime,butfranklyIhardlyever
havefoundutilityfromtheothertwo.
Kirk: In your book Chart Your Way to Profits, you talk about essential
indicators like moving averages, Bollinger bands, the parabolic stop
and reversal (PSAR), and moving average convergence divergence
(MACD). Among all of these methods, which are your favorites and
why?
Tim Knight: Some people may find this surprising, but I don’t use any of
them.It’snotbecauseI’vetriedthemandtheydon’twork;it’ssimply
thatmystyleofchartingisquitevanilla,andIhaven’tfoundtheuseof
derivedinformationtobehelpfulformepersonally.
Kirk:Veryinteresting.So,doyouusedifferenttimeframesinyourtechni-
calanalysis?Ifso,whattimeframesdoyouliketouseandwhy?
Tim Knight: I’m pretty consistent these days using a 10-year daily chart.
That might seem like a lot, but it captures the past two bear markets
and the big bull run in between. I like to keep an eye on the 10-day
minutebarchartforindexesduringthetradingday,butotherwisethe
10-yeardailyismyreference.
Kirk: All good traders dedicate a lot of time and effort to improvement
and to reducing mistakes. How has your trading method evolved and
improvedovertheyears?
TimKnight:Ithinkmyorganizationskillsandmypsychologicaldiscipline
have improved the most. If anything, I’ve simplified my method and
approach.
Kirk:Canyouprovideanexampleofsomethingyouthoughtwastruewhen
tradingearlyinyourcareerandnowbelieveisjustdeadwrong?
Tim Knight: I used to think individual stocks could have minds of their
ownandactindependentlyofthemarket,butInowknowthatahuge
part of what any stock does depends on what the market as a whole
isdoing.Therearealwaysexceptions—Irememberthat,forwhatever
reason,KrispyKreme’sstockdidfantasticallywellduringthebursting

P1:OTA
appA JWBT295-Knight May25,2010 10:41 Printer:Yettocome
502 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
of the tech bubble—but on the whole it’s really, really tough to fight
thegeneraltrend.
Kirk:Howmuchtimeandattentiondoyoupayattentiontoothers’opinions
aboutthemarketand/orstocksyouaretrading?
Tim Knight:I’mnotespeciallyinterestedinotheropinionsaboutindivid-
ualstocks,butthereareafewplacesIrespectforopinionsonthemar-
ketingeneral.IenjoyElliottWaveInternational’spublications,partic-
ularlytheirShort-TermUpdate,andofcourseIdrawalotofknowledge
and perspective from the comments section of Slope, since there are
tensofthousandsofreadersonaregularbasis.
Kirk: I know you’ve said you like to do “hand-chart analysis.” In fact, you
shared a very interesting chart some time ago about the future of the
market.Whatcantradersaccomplishbychartingstocksandthemar-
ketsinthismannerand,bytheway,howdidyoucreatethatchart?
TimKnight:Icreatedthechartbycomparingthe1937–1941markettoour
ownmarket,sinceIfeltitwastheclosesthistorical“template.”Sofar,
it’s proved remarkably prescient, but we’ll have to see how the next
fewyearspanout.Ihavehardlyeverdonesomethinglikethisbefore,
but I felt inspired on that particular day about the future direction of
the market. I only wish I had paid closer attention to my own work,
sinceImissedagoodchunkoftherun-upfromMarchthroughAugust
of2009,eventhoughmyowncharttotallynailedit.
Kirk:Itishumannaturetothinkthemarketsmustconformtoourviewof
reality,butaswe’vebothseen,themarketisnotrationalbutemotional.
Over the years and, especially recently, I’ve witnessed many traders
sufferperformanceanxietybecauseoftheirnegativeviewsaboutthe
economy and the skepticism over the bailouts and from just fighting
the short-term trends. In your view, how do traders learn to separate
theiropinionsandbiasandstillprofitfromthemarketwhilehavinga
largeamountofskepticism?I’maskingthisquestionofyouparticularly
becauseIthinkthisisoneofyourstrengths.
Tim Knight: I’m appreciative that you think it’s one of my strengths, al-
though my bias about what’s been going on with all the government
bailouts is tough for me to shake. My point of view, the more tunnel
vision you can have with respect to the charts, the better. If you can
focusonyourownanalysis—inmycase,purelycharts—andfilterout
all the other noise, it’s bound to help. And I never, ever flick on the
televisiontohearwhatthefinancialnewsnetworksaretalkingabout.
Kirk: Please describe a typical trading day for you. How do you organize
anddedicateyourtime?

P1:OTA
appA JWBT295-Knight May25,2010 10:41 Printer:Yettocome
AppendixA:TheKirkReportInterview 503
TimKnight:IliveontheWestCoast,somydaystartsearly.Iamusuallyup
atabout5:30or6A.M.tocatchupone-mails,checkouttheovernight
markets, and look at comments on my blog. I’ll typically do a quick
postbeforethemarketopens.Thefirsthalfhouroftheday,I’msimply
watchingwhat’sgoingonandgoingthroughmykeywatchlists.Once
thefirsthalfhourisdone,I’musuallyreadytoexecutesomeideas.
Ispendthetradingdaydoingblogposts,answeringe-mails,working
onnewproductfeatures,andmanagingtrades.Iliketodoanend-of-
day wrap-up after the markets have closed, and then I’ll catch up on
otherworkingeneral.The6:30A.M.to1:00P.M.timeblockisprecious
tome,becausethat’swhenI’mreallyfocusedontradingandwriting.
Kirk:Canyougiveussomeideaofwhattoolsyouusetomonitorthemar-
kets(i.e.yourtradingplatform,software,websites,etc.)?
Tim Knight:It’sactuallyverysimple.I’vegottwocomputers—ahigh-end
DelllaptopandaMacPowerBook.Eachofthemdrivestwomonitors,
my favorite of which is my honkin’ big 30-inch Apple monitor whose
sole purpose in life is to show me the S&P e-mini future bob along.
I am very loyal to Prophet’s own products, so I use MarketMatrix to
trackmyportfoliosandProphetCharts—ofcourse!—tomakemytrad-
ingdecisionsandkeepmywatchlistsinorder.
Kirk:Whatwouldyousayarethebiggestchangesinthemarketsandtrad-
ingingeneralyou’veseenduringyourcareerbothgoodandbad?
Tim Knight: Recently the biggest change has been the huge influence of
the government and investment banks in trying to turn the economy
around.Thegovernmenthasnever,atleastinmylifetime,intervened
so radically in the markets, and that has caused a lot of methods and
systemsthatusedtoworkveryreliablytobesetasideasuselessuntil
this whole thing blows over and we can all return to a semblance of
normalcy.
Kirk:Doyouthinkitiseasierormorechallengingtotradeforalivingnow
thaninthepast?
Tim Knight: I think it’s somewhat easier, but only because there is such
a better selection of trading vehicles. Traders have an amazing set of
toolstoworkwithintheformofallthenewETFsthathavecomeout,
inadditiontothee-minifutures,andtheproductselectionjustkeeps
getting better. It wasn’t long ago that the biggest innovation around
weretheinversemutualfundswhichsettheirpricesjusttwiceaday,
andyouhadtoplacetheordersomethinglike30minutesinadvance.
Kirk: What kind of advice would you give a person just now beginning in
tradingthemarkets?

P1:OTA
appA JWBT295-Knight May25,2010 10:41 Printer:Yettocome
504 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
TimKnight:Iwouldspendalotoftimehangingoutinaqualityonlinecom-
munity. Slope of Hope comes to mind, naturally, but there are plenty
ofothergoodblogsandforumsouttherewherepeoplecaneitherlurk
andlearnoractuallygetinthereandparticipate.Continuingthelearn-
ingonceyoustarttradingisevenmoreimportant.
Kirk:Anumberofpeoplewhoreadmywebsitedesiretotradeforaliving.
Like you, Ireceive a lotof questions concerning capital requirements
needed to start and how to make the transition to trade full-time. Do
youhaveanywordsofwisdomorrulesofthumbtosharealongthese
lines?
Tim Knight:I’msorry,Ireallydon’t.Somepeoplehavetakensmallsums
andmadefortunes,andsomepeoplehavedonejusttheopposite.It’s
liketheoldjoke—“Howdoyoumakeasmallfortunetradingcommodi-
ties?Startwithalargeone.”SoIdon’tknowofanymagicnumber,and
there certainly isn’t any dollar figure that will guarantee you are im-
munetobeingbadlydamagedifyoudon’ttradewell.
Kirk:Whatarethethingsyoulikebestaboutthetradingbusiness?
Tim Knight:ThefactthatIandIaloneamresponsiblefortheresults.To
somepeople,thatmightbeanegative,sinceit’salwaysmorecomfort-
ing to say that such-and-so caused a bad thing to happen to you. But
tobeabletolookinthemirrorandknowthatyouaretheonlyperson
who is going to create a result, whether for good or bad, can be very
empowering.
Kirk:Whatarethedownsidestotradingforaliving?
TimKnight:Theuncertainty—youhaveabsolutelynocontrolofthemar-
ket,andeventhoughit’sveryeasyforapersontosay“justtradewhat
yousee,”thatadviceisaboutasusefulastellinganewlymarriedcou-
ple, “Don’t ever have a fight.” People and markets are complex crea-
tures,andthingsaren’talwaysgoingtogoasyouplan.
Kirk:Howdoesapersonknowitistherighttimeandtherightdecisionfor
themtotradeforaliving?
Tim Knight: I think most of us would agree that it’s important to have
the basics in place for core living expenses. You don’t want to
betradingthechildren’stuitionorthefamilygrocerymoney.Nomat-
terhowunlikelyyoumaythinkitis,youhavetobeinapositiontolose
100percentofyourtradingcapitalandnothaveitaffectyourlifestyle.
Otherwise,thepressurewillsimplyscrewupyourmind-set.
How long a person trades before getting really serious about it de-
pendsontheperson’sinnateability,andIdothinkthatvarieswidely.
Just as some people are born to be musicians, I think some people

P1:OTA
appA JWBT295-Knight May25,2010 10:41 Printer:Yettocome
AppendixA:TheKirkReportInterview 505
were born to be traders. I was not a “born” trader, so it’s taken me
many,manyyears.Buttherearesurely21-year-oldsouttherewhoare
ready to trade for a living, and I’m sure there are 70-year-old people
with50yearsoftradingexperiencethatstillshouldjustkeepitasan
amusinghobbyandnothingmore.
Kirk:BecauseofyourwebsiteI’msureyouareprivilegedtoknowalotof
differentkindsoftraders.Wheredoyouseetradersmissingtheboat?
Tim Knight: I think the biggest boat missed is underestimating just how
faramarketoranindividualsecuritycango.Thereseemstobenoth-
ingmorecommonthansomeonebuyingastockat$5,sellingitat$7,
congratulatingthemselvesonaterrificprofit,andthenseeingthestock
goupto$30(or,forabear,similarfiguresintheoppositedirection).I
am quite guilty of thismyself—Ibought the stock Avis Budget Group
(CAR)onMarch2for42cents,gotstoppedoutthenextdayforatiny
loss, and then watched the stock move up to over $10 in just a few
months.Nowthatwasabigboattomiss!
Kirk:Likewise,whataresomequalitiesyoufrequentlyfindamongthemost
successfultradersyouknow?
TimKnight:I’dsay“evenhandedness.”There’saregularreaderonmysite,
Brinkley,whohasaknackforhavingaveryimpartialviewofthemar-
ket,nomatterwhatit’sdoing.Ireallyadmirethat,andIthinkalotof
myreaderslookuptoherforthesamequalitywhichisprettydifficult
tofindamongtraders.
Kirk:Thinkingback,whatwasmostinstrumentalinyourdevelopmentinto
becomingasuccessfultrader?
Tim Knight: There’s no doubt that writing Slope of Hope has been the
biggestdevelopmentforme,simplybecauseIhavetonotonlyanswer
tomyselfbutalsototheseveraltensofthousandsofpeoplewhoread
mywork.Ithasmademeamuchmorecareful,thoughtful,andlogical
trader.
Kirk:Whenallissaidanddone,inyourexperiencewhatisthebestwayto
learnhowtotrade?
Tim Knight: I have long been a “learning by doing” sort of person. The
tricky thing about doing this with trading is that you’re dealing with
actual money. Some people are big believers in paper trading, but
I’m afraid that’s just not the same. I suppose it helps a person ac-
quaintthemselveswiththeactualmechanicsofplacingorders,watch-
ing charts, and placing stops—all of which are healthy—but I don’t
thinkonereallystartslearninghowtobeatraderuntiltheyareactu-
allytradingwiththeirowndollarsandcents.

P1:OTA
appA JWBT295-Knight May25,2010 10:41 Printer:Yettocome
506 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
Kirk: I suspect like all good traders you are working on improving your
performance in some manner. Can you share what you’re specifically
workingonrightnow?
Tim Knight:Attheriskofsoundingrepetitious,mypersonalchallengeis
tobalancethebearinwithmewithsomebull.I’mafraidIenjoybear
marketswaytoomuchformyowngood,particularlysincetheymove
soquickly,whichtendstoagreewithmyimpatientnature.Butthefact
is that bull markets are more common and longer-lasting than bear
markets, and I won’t be a consistently successful trader unless I can
beasgoodabullasIamabear.That’smyongoinggoal.
Kirk:Atthispointofyourcareer,whodoyoulookuptoforinspirationand
guidance?
TimKnight:Idon’thaveaparticularmentororrolemodel,sobooksabout
traders and trading are my stand-in. I enjoy books about trading psy-
chology,successfultraders,andinterestingchartingtechniques.I’min
the final throes of getting my Chartered Market Technician certifica-
tion,sothatisexposingmetoalotofrequiredreadingthatInormally
mightnothavediscovered.
Kirk: Although I know both of us share love for the markets and trading,
whatareyourlong-termcareerplansandfutureforyourwebsite?
Tim Knight: My overriding principle in anything I do is that work should
neveractuallyseemlikework.Doingwhatyouloveseemslikeacom-
mon truism these days, but I have lived that credo for my entire life.
Thepopularityofmybloghasopenedupsomenewopportunitiesthat
I’m going to be exploring very soon, but one thing I’m pretty certain
about is that I’m going to keep writing Slope of Hope as long as my
readerswillcontinuetoputupwithme.
Kirk:Finally,ifyouhadonepieceofadvicetosharewithallinvestorsand
traders,whatwoulditbe?
TimKnight:Bepatient!Learninghowtotradeprofitablyandconsistently
isn’tsomethingyoudoafterattendingaweekendseminar.Itcanbea
lifelongjourneyofself-discoveryandself-improvement.Giveyourself
time,andkeepyourriskcapitalsensiblesothatyoudon’thurtyourself
intheprocess.Goodluck!
Kirk:Thankyouforalloftheperspectivesabouthowyoutrade.Welook
forwardtoreadingyourblogupdates.Tradewell!

P1:OTA
appB JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 8:49 Printer:Yettocome
A P P E N D I X B
MarketMatrix
T
he MarketMatrix applet is a streaming quote and portfolio sys-
tem that is made available on the Investools Investor Toolbox
(www.investools.com). The purpose of this section is not to teach
you how to use MarketMatrix but to illustrate how the portfolio manage-
mentsystemistiedtothechartingsystems.
EachlineinMarketMatrixdisplaysasymbolaswellasaquoteforthat
symbol (in the case of a watch list) or a profit/loss for your position in
thatsymbol(inthecaseofaportfolio).Whenyouright-clickonasymbol,
a pop-up menu appears, and one of the choices offered is ProphetCharts
(Figure B.1). You can select this or, for the same result, double-click that
linetomakeachartappear.
You are not limited to displaying just one chart on your screen. You
canhavemultiplechartsdisplayed,eachofwhichcanhaveitsownprop-
erties.Theredoesnotneedtobeanycorrelationbetweenthechartsatall:
they can have different symbols, different time periods, some streaming
andsomenotstreaming,andsoforth.Thegoalisforyoutogetaviewinto
themarketthatishelpfulwithoutbeingoverwhelming.
You can create multiple chart instances by repeatedly invoking
ProphetCharts from MarketMatrix, or you can use the clone feature (dis-
cussed in Chapter 2) to create new charts using any existing chart style.
Figure B.2 illustrates how all the available chart styles appear when the
down-arrownexttoCloneisclicked.Choosinganyofthesestyleswillpro-
duceanotherchartinstanceusingthespecifiedstyle.
507

P1:OTA
appB JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 8:49 Printer:Yettocome
508 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
FIGURE B.1 Thisisthepop-upmenu FIGURE B.2 Whenyoucloneachart,
thatappearswhenyouright-clickanitem youcanselectanyofthechartstylesyou
inaportfoliowithinMarketMatrix. havemadeasthebasisfortheclone.
Asasimpleexample,FigureB.3showstwochartssimultaneouslydis-
played.Thetoponeisastreamingfive-dayminute-barchartoftheS&P500
index,whichalsoincludesstreamingreal-timequotes.Theloweroneisa
five-yeardailychartoftheS&P500ETFs(symbolSPY).Thiskindofcon-
jointshort-term/long-termviewispopularamongswingtraderswhoneed
twoperspectivesatonce.
Nomatterhowmanychartsyouhave,youwillfindittime-consuming
to create, resize, and position each and every chart day after day. This is
particularlytrueifyouusemultiplevideoscreens,sincearrangingthevari-
ouselementsthatareavailablewithMarketMatrix(suchasmultipleWatch
Lists,multiplePortfolios,OptionsChains,Time&Sales,Level2,andmul-
tipleProphetCharts)takesalotoftimeandcare.
For this reason, there is a time-saving feature called Desktop in
MarketMatrixthatallowsyoutopreservealltheelementsyouhavelaidout
on the screen into a custom-named desktop. Therefore, when you call up
this desktop again, everything you’ve laid out—particularly including the

P1:OTA
appB JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 8:49 Printer:Yettocome
AppendixB:MarketMatrix 509
FIGURE B.3 These two charts appear on the same screen, the top showing an
intradaystreaminggraphandthebottomshowingadailymultiyeargraph.
charts—will be put back in the same place using the same size, symbols,
and other parameters. All you need to do is click the Desktop dropdown
menu and choose the Save option to get the dialog box as shown in
FigureB.4.
Once your layout is saved, you can access it from the same pop-
up menu in MarketMatrix. Just click on Desktop and choose Layouts
(FigureB.5).Anydesktopsyouhavesavedalreadywillbeshowninasub-
menu,andallyouneedtodotocreateitisclickonthedesktopnameyou
wanttoinvoke.

P1:OTA
appB JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 8:49 Printer:Yettocome
510 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
FIGURE B.4 Youshouldsaveadesktopwithanamedescribingthepurposeor
layoutofthedesktop.
PORTFOLIO INTEGRATION
On the Investor Toolbox, there is another level of integration that makes
ProphetCharts more helpful as a trading tool, and that is the integration
ofportfoliodatadirectlywithintheapplet.Youmayrecallthatoneofthe
modules available on the left panel is My Portfolios (located between My
WatchListsandMyStudySets).Ifyouchoosetodisplaythismodule,itwill
show you the name and contents of every portfolio you have created on
theInvestorToolbox,alongwiththesizeandentrypriceofeachposition
(FigureB.6).
FIGURE B.5 Anylayoutsyouhavecreatedalreadywillbepresentedinthepop-up
soyoucanbringupthatlayoutwithoneclick.

P1:OTA
appB JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 8:49 Printer:Yettocome
AppendixB:MarketMatrix 511
FIGURE B.6 The quantity and purchase price of any holdings in a portfolio are
displayedinthemodule.
FIGURE B.7 AtthetopoftheMarketMatrixdisplayisacountofallLong,Short,
andOptionspositionsinthecurrently-displayedportfolio.

P1:OTA
appB JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 8:49 Printer:Yettocome
512 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
FIGURE B.8 ProphetChartscandisplaythesumtotalofitemsfollowingthename
ofeachwatchlistorportfolio.

P1:OTA
appB JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 8:49 Printer:Yettocome
AppendixB:MarketMatrix 513
FIGURE B.9 Thewatchlistsshowjustthecompanynamesofthewatchlistcon-
tents,whereastheportfoliolistsdisplaythebasicinformationaboutthepositions
beingheld.

P1:OTA
appB JWBT295-Knight May10,2010 8:49 Printer:Yettocome
514 CHARTYOURWAYTOPROFITS
You will see the same portfolio reflected in MarketMatrix. For exam-
ple,FigureB.7showsaportfoliocalled“Trust.”Thenumberofpositionsis
displayed,showing10shortequitypositionsand24optionpositions.These
samepositions,underthename“Trust,”willbeavailableinProphetCharts,
sinceallthedataaresharedbetweentheappletsandthewebsite.
OnehelpfulthingaboutWatchListsandPortfoliosbothbeingavailable
asmodulesisthatyoucanmakesureyouhaveanaccuraterepresentation
ofyourholdings.OnefeatureProphetChartsprovidesistheabilitytoshow
a quantity count for each watch list and portfolio. Under the Preferences
dialogbox,checktheShowItemCountscheckboxtoturnonthisfeature.
Whenyoudo,aparentheticalsumwillfolloweachwatchlistandport-
folioname (FigureB.8, witharrowsadded foremphasis) soyou can con-
firm that your portfolio’s contents in a given watch list are in synch with
the actual holdings you have entered into MarketMatrix. In this instance,
thereare34itemsintheCurrentTrustwatchlistand34itemsintheTrust
portfolio,sotheyappeartobeinsynch.
KeepinmindthattheinformationinMyWatchListsandtheinforma-
tion in My Portfolios are intended to provide different kinds of informa-
tion. The watch list shows simply the company name (or symbol, if you
haveelectedthatstyleofdisplay)containedwithineachlist.Theportfolio
showstherawsymbolfollowedbythequantityownedaswellastheentry
price (Figure B.9). Watch lists are typically created and managed within
ProphetCharts, whereas portfolios are typically created and managed ei-
therinMarketMatrixoronthePortfoliopageoftheInvestorToolbox.

P1:JYS
bind JWBT295-Knight May25,2010 20:55 Printer:Yettocome
Index
A ADSK,195
Ambiguity,219–224 AEP,434
Arcs,438–440 AFL,202
Arithmeticcharts,26–28 AIG,200,223
Avg.imp.Volatility,104–110 AKAM,189
ALD,199
B ALVR,249
Bearmarkets,4 ALXN,305,306
Bid-askoverlay,104–110 ALU,381
Bollingerbands,119–121 AMR,316
BreakoutStudiesmodule,57–58 ANF,203
Bullsandbears,2 ANR,289
Buy-ins,468–470 APL,186
ARBA,12
C ARBX,267
CandlePatternsmodule,49 ASYS,371
Candlestickpatterns,403–407 AVB,269,301
Channellines,229–233 AYE,385
Chartcomparison,154–163 AYI,202
Chartexamples(bysymbol): BHI,134
$COMPQ,427 BKHM,266
$CZH,433 BMHC,250
$INDU,3,4,182,432,441 BRCM,13,325
$MID,217 CHK,9
$MSH,209 CHTR,313
$NDX,222 CLF,171,196,197
$OEX,216 CME,132
$RUT,212,384 CNP,279,280
$SPX,444 CVGI,188
$UTIL,214 CVH,263
$TRAN,210 DIOD,213
AAPL,435 DOVP,312
515

P1:JYS
bind JWBT295-Knight May25,2010 20:55 Printer:Yettocome
516 INDEX
Chartexamples(bysymbol) PLAB,211
(Continued) PLD,385
DTG,464 POT,244
DTV,288 PTR,283,284
DYN,201 Q,377
EMC,20,280,281 QQQQ,287
EMR,434 RBAK,380
ESRX,117,344 RHAT,272,273,274
EUR/USD,94,436 SLR,260
FRED,373 SPY,168
GE,346 STSA,198
HANS,21,166,250,251,428,429 SVNX,267
HBAN,307,309 TASR,302
HD,118 TRA,257
HON,187 USD/CAD,189
HOV,385 WFMI,255
HPNN,247 WMT,256
HSY,362 X,135
HTCH,384 XLU,185
ISLE,383 YHOO,119,124,167,168
JJZ,257 Chartexamples(bytype):
JNPR,24,350 Bollingerbands,120–122
JWN,426 channels,235–238
KKD,169 cupwithhandle,272–276,
KMG,375 279–288
KMI,218 descendingchannel,16
LNET,290 diamondpattern,288–289
LU,261 dometop,25
LVLT,377 Fibonaccifanlines,3,4
MMM,22,245,275 head&shoulders,12,13,
MON,247 320–362
MPEL,382 horizontalline,185–188
MSTR,216 invertedhead&shoulders,
MTW,282 363–380
NDAQ,264 left-scaleaxis,162
NEWP,242 linearregressionchannel,126
NTRI,124,207 MACD,129–132
NUE,113 movingaveragecrossover,116,
NZD/USD,425 118
OI,241,268 multiplebottoms,312–316
OIH,115 multipletops,303–311
OMG,259 paralleltrendlines,207–209
PIR,291 pricefailure,247,264–269

P1:JYS
bind JWBT295-Knight May25,2010 20:55 Printer:Yettocome
Index 517
PSAR,127–128 horizontalline,276–277
ribbonstudy,122–124 textnotes,296–299
roundedtop,257–264 trendline,171–175
RSI,134–135 Durationofchart,39–42
saucer,7,22,241–246,248–255
trendlineviolation,165–171 E
Chartpatterns: Editingtechnicalstudies,141–144
combining,18 E-minifutures,94–97
importanceofcompletion,14 Eventicons,86–90
repetition,9–11 Exchange-tradedfunds(ETFs),
Chartstyles: 470–472
creatingandsaving,79–81
introductionto,78–79 F
ChartToppersmodule,53–56 Falsebreakouts,208–213
Cloning,42–43 Fans,425–438
Comparingcharts,154–163 Fibonaccipatterns:
Continuousfuturescontracts, arcs,438–440
98–100 combining,443–445
Crossovers,148–151 fans,425–438
Cupwithhandlepattern,271–276 historicalbackground,408–409
CurrencyPairsmodule,49 retracement,409–425
timezones,440–443
D Financialinstruments,29
Dataline,32–34 Frequencyofchartdata,39–42
Datatypes Futurescharts,97–100
e-minifutures,94–97 Futuresmodule,56
equities,84–90 Futuressymbolsearch,36–38
forex,93–94
futures,97–100 G
indexes,83–84 Gridcharts,400–403,453–456
mutualfunds,90–93
options,100–104 H
Deadcatbounce,290–291 Headandshoulderspattern:
Detachbutton,30 examples,322–324,334–362
Diamondpattern,288–289 introduction,11–13,318–321
Dividendicons,88 inversepattern,362–385
DowJonesindustrialaverage,3–4 neckline,324–329
Dragginganddropping,65–66 retracement,329–334
Drawingtools: Hidingelements,460–463
channels,229–233 Higherhighsandhigherlows,
expansion,225–229 299–303
functions177–178 Highlightingcharts,293–296
highlighting,293–296 Horizontallinetool,276–277

P1:JYS
bind JWBT295-Knight May25,2010 20:55 Printer:Yettocome
518 INDEX
I MyChartStylesmodule,53
Impliedvolatility,104–110 MyPortfoliosmodule,52,512–516
Indexes,83–84 MyStudySetsmodule,52,151–154
Indicators: MyWatchListsmodule,49–51,
Bollingerband,119–121 73–74
introductionto,111–112
linearregressionchannel, O
125–127 Openinterest,29–30
MACD,128–133 OptionControlsmodule,59–60,
movingaverages,112–119 104–110
parabolicstopandreversal, Optionssymbolsearch,34–36,
127–128 100–104
relativestrengthindex,133–136 Optionstrading,472–474
ribbonstudy,121–125 Options,100–104
Indicesmodule,56–57
Invertedcharts,463–465 P
Invertedheadandshoulders, Panes,144–148
362–388 Parabolicstopandreversal,
127–128
Patternfailures,264–269,400–402
K
Patternrecognition:
Keyboardshortcuts,59
candlesticks,403–407
introduction,387–394
L
usingtheresults,394–398
Labels,446–453
Patternsmodule,48–49
Left-scaleaxis,159–163
Phase1and2Scoresmodule,49
Linearregressionchannel,125–127
Preferences,60–65
Logarithmiccharts,26–28
Priceequilibrium,6
Longposition,4
Pricefailure,246–248
Long-termchartexamples,2–3
Pricepullbacks,243–246
ProphetCharts
M datatypessupported,29
MACD,128–133 panes,144–148
Magnifyingglasstool,31 preferences,60–65
MarketMatrix,507–514 requirements,26
Modules:
basicbehavior,45–46 Q
resizing,45 QuickTogglesmodule,58–59
usingarrowswithin,51 Quotemodule,48
Movingaverages,112–119
Multiplebottoms,311–316 R
Multipletops,303–311 Ratiocharts,49,456–460
Mutualfunds,90–93 Relativestrengthindex,133–136

P1:JYS
bind JWBT295-Knight May25,2010 20:55 Printer:Yettocome
Index 519
Resistance: Tradingrules,481–486
alternation,7,196–206 Tradingstyle,81–82
defined,5–6 Trendline:
examples,184–193 changes,15–18
failure,6 colorandstyle,175–179
overhead,7 introductionto,164–171
Resizingcharts,225–229 multiple,213–219
Retracement,409–425 parallel,206–208
Ribbonstudy,121–125 tool,171–175
Roundedtoppatterns,255–264
U
S Upside-downcharts,463–465
Saucerbottoms,248–255 Uptickrule,468
Sellingstocksshort,4,466–468
Shortpositiondefined,4 V
SlopeofHopeblog,478–480 Volume:
Stockspliticon,87,89 withbullishbreakouts,14,23
Stop-lossprices,484–485,486–487 withcupandhandleformation,
Streamingcharts,38–39 272
Studysets,151–154 withsaucers,250–251
Support:
alternation,7,196–206 W
defined,5–6 Watchlists:
failure,6 adding,72
Symbolsearch,34–38 deleting,72–73
dragginganddropping,65–66,
T 74–76
Technicalcrossovers,148–151 introductionto,70–73
Technicalstudieseditor,57, right-clickingwithin,66–69,
138–141 76–78
Textnotes,296–299
Timezones,440–443 Z
Tradingpsychology,6 Zoominginandout,31–32

CC HH AA RRTT
YYOOUURR WWAAYY TTOO
PP RR OO FF II TT SS
S E C O N D E D I T I O N
The Online Trader’s Guide to
Technical Analysis with ProphetCharts®
TIM KNIGHT
PPRROOFFIITTSS
YYOOUURR
WWAAYY
TTOO
CCHHAARRTT
KNIGHT
with
ProphetCharts
®
to
Technical
Analysis
The
Online
Trader’s
Guide
(continued from front flap) $75.00 USA
$90.00 CAN
No matter what you trade, technical analysis can Technical analysis is the study of past price
Praise for the First Edition of
make you a better and more profi table trader. movement for the purpose of predicting
Price charts will consistently provide the most Chart Your Way to Profi ts future price movement. If done correctly, it can
complete representation of the supply and lead to substantial trading profi ts. But making
demand behind any fi nancial instrument be- money in the market isn’t easy. No one knows
cause everything that can be publicly known this better than author Tim Knight, who has
“As a former pit trader and a technical ‘newbie,’ I have found Tim’s new book to
or speculated is already built into the graph. been charting and trading the fi nancial mar-
be the best resource I’ve seen for the everyday trader. With its fun and informa-
Through the ups and downs of fi nancial markets, kets for more than twenty years. The com-
tive style, it has allowed me to understand and appreciate the professional world
technical criteria and charting allow traders to pany he founded, Prophet Financial Systems
be completely objective in their assessment of technical analysis.” (now owned by TD Ameritrade), was ranked
of price action, while leaving emotion out of —Tom Sosnoff, cofounder and CEO, thinkorswim, Inc. for years as the number-one site for technical
the decision-making process. Chart Your Way to analysis by both Barron’s and Forbes.
Profi ts, Second Edition can help you do the same,
as it shows you how to combine technical
“Tim Knight is a chartist’s chartist—I can’t recommend his work highly enough. In the fi rst edition of Chart Your Way to
analysis with powerful online tools to achieve
Few people have done as much as he has in providing the sort of quality online Profi ts, Knight showed how to use the power-
trading success.
resources technical traders need in order to make money in the fi nancial markets. ful technology available online in conjunction
Chart Your Way to Profi ts is a twenty-fi rst-century blueprint on how to use with technical analysis to analyze markets and
technical tools to achieve trading and investing success.” make the most profi table trading decisions
TIM KNIGHT is a hedge fund money man- possible. Now, in this revised Second Edition,
—David Penn, Editor, Technical Analysis of Stocks and Commodities magazine
ager and the founder of Prophet Financial Sys-
he offers many new technical tools for track-
tems (now owned by TD Ameritrade), rated by ing individual stocks and also shows you how
Forbes magazine and Barron’s as the number-one
to use ProphetCharts® to do advanced inter-
online site for technical analysis. He also writes “Tim has written the best guide to leveraging ProphetCharts and technical analy-
market technical studies to identify the best
the popular blog, slopeofhope.com. Prior to sis in the market today. This is a complex subject and can leave new and old in- opportunities.
starting Prophet.net, he was vice president of vestors buried in too much data or impossible learning curves. Tim breaks these
products for Montgomery Securities, where he complex ideas down into actionable ideas and strategies. I would recommend this
Written in a straightforward and acces-
helped develop PC-based trader workstations book to anyone that wants an education in the latest and best tools and methods
sible manner, Chart Your Way to Profi ts, Second
before the development of Web trading. Knight professional technicians are using today.”
Edition introduces the ProphetCharts® ap-
has traded for over twenty years, primarily
—John Jagerson, Vice President of Content, Investools plication (accessible to anyone with Inter-
using technical analysis and price charts.
author of Profi ting with Forex net access and an account), which allows
you to perform your own analysis with the
help of hundreds of real-world examples.
Jacket Illustration: iStockphoto Along the way, you’ll also become familiar
with some of the most important rules of
sound trading. The author examines a variety
of chart types, highlights essential indicators,
SECOND EDITION
explores numerous analysis methods, and
offers a wealth of in-depth insight and practi-
cal advice throughout the book.
(continued on back flap)

