$70.00 USA/$77.00 CAN
SECOND EDITION
DAY TRADING & SWING TRADING the CURRENCY MARKET
goes far beyond what other currency trading books
cover. It delves into consistently critical questions such SECOND EDITION
as “What Are the Most Market-Moving Indicators for the Praise for the First Edition
I
U.S. Dollar” and “What Are Currency Correlations and “I thought this was one of the best books that I had read on FX. The book should (cid:59)(cid:56)(cid:80)(cid:23)(cid:75)(cid:73)(cid:56)(cid:59)(cid:64)(cid:69)(cid:62)(cid:23)(cid:29) n only a few short years, the currency/foreign ex-
How to Use Them,” while touching on topics like “How change (FX) market has grown signifi cantly. With
be required reading not only for traders new to the foreign exchange markets,
to Trade like a Hedge Fund Manager” and “The Impact institutions and individuals driving daily average
but also for seasoned professionals. I’ll defi nitely be keeping it on my desk for
of Seasonality in the Currency Market” that could give volume past the $3 trillion mark, there are many profi t-
reference. The book is very readable and very educational. In fact, I wish that
you a distinct edge in this competitive arena. able opportunities available in this arena—but only if
Kathy’s book had been around when I had fi rst started out in FX. It would have
you understand how to operate within it.
saved me from a lot of heartache from reading duller books, and would have (cid:74)(cid:78)(cid:64)(cid:69)(cid:62)(cid:23)(cid:75)(cid:73)(cid:56)(cid:59)(cid:64)(cid:69)(cid:62)
Filled with proven trading strategies as well as detailed
saved me a lot of time from having to learn things the hard way. I look forward to
statistical analysis, the Second Edition of Day Trad- That’s why Kathy Lien—Director of Currency Re-
reading other books from her in the future.” ing and Swing Trading the Currency Market will help search for one of the most popular Forex providers in
—Farooq Muzammal, Head of Foreign Exchange, MAREX Capital
you achieve unparalleled success in the most actively the world—has created Day Trading and Swing Trad-
traded market in the world. ing the Currency Market, Second Edition. Written for
(cid:107)(cid:95)(cid:92)(cid:23)(cid:58)(cid:76)(cid:73)(cid:73)(cid:60)(cid:69)(cid:58)(cid:80) “Kathy’s book is an indispensable tool for Forex traders, whether you are a pro-
both the experienced and aspiring trader, this updated
KATHY LIEN is the Director of fessional or novice. It not only lays the groundwork for an in-depth understanding guide outlines the essential elements of the FX market
Currency Research at Global Forex of Forex trading, it also contains numerous fundamental and technical strategies and reveals the latest trends, data, and strategies that
Trading, Division of Global Futures . . . . I suspect that many traders will be keeping Kathy’s book within arm’s reach all traders, particularly day and swing traders, need to
& Forex, Ltd. She is responsible for for many years to come.” (cid:68)(cid:56)(cid:73)(cid:66)(cid:60)(cid:75) be aware of in order to excel in this fast-moving fi eld.
providing research and analysis, in- —Eddie Kwong, Executive VP/Editor in Chief, Tradingmarkets.com
cluding technical and fundamental After an engaging introduction to how the foreign ex-
research reports, market commen- “In Day Trading the Currency Market, Kathy Lien provides traders with unique, change market has evolved over the last few years and
taries, and trading strategies. Prior thoughtful, and profi table insight on trading this exciting market. This book a look at some of its historical milestones, this book
to joining GFT, Lien was the chief strategist of DailyFX. should be required reading for all traders, whether they are novices to Forex or (cid:58)(cid:102)(cid:100)(cid:103)(cid:99)(cid:92)(cid:107)(cid:92)(cid:99)(cid:112) quickly moves on to address the innovative trading
com and an associate at JPMorgan Chase, where experienced professionals.” insights that will enhance your profi tability within
(cid:73)(cid:92)(cid:109)(cid:96)(cid:106)(cid:92)(cid:91)(cid:23)(cid:29)
she worked in cross-markets and foreign exchange —Cory Janssen, cofounder, Investopedia.com today’s FX market. Page by page, you’ll become
(cid:76)(cid:103)(cid:91)(cid:88)(cid:107)(cid:92)(cid:91)
trading. She has vast experience within the interbank familiar with:
market using both technical and fundamental analysis “There are aspects to trading currencies that are different from trading equities,
to trade FX spot and options. She also has experience options, or futures. In this book, Kathy Lien provides deep insight into all the • New technical trading strategies, which include how
trading a number of products outside of FX, includ- mechanisms that take place in the currency markets. Any currency trader will to trade news, effectively time market turns, and
ing interest rate derivatives, bonds, equities, and fu- gain more confi dence in their trading after reading this book.” capture new shifts in momentum
tures. Lien has written for Active Trader, Futures, and —Jayanthi Gopalakrishnan, Editor, • Proven fundamental trading strategies, which involve
SFO magazines and is frequently quoted on CNBC, Technical Analysis of Stocks & Commodities trading off commodity prices, fi xed income instru-
Bloomberg, Fox Business, and Reuters. She is also ments, and option volatilities; as well as intervention-
the author of the fi rst edition of Day Trading the Cur- “Kathy has done a brilliant job with this book. She speaks directly to traders based trades and macro event-driven trades
rency Market as well as Millionaire Traders, both of and gives them guidance to improve their performance as Forex traders. I took • The unique characteristics of each major currency
which are published by Wiley. some notes and ideas from the book myself that are going to be very useful for pair—from when they are most active to what drives
my business.” their price action
Jacket Design: Loretta Leiva —Francesc Riverola, CEO and founder, FXstreet.com • Trading through different market conditions, by fi rst
Jacket Photograph: © Getty Images
profi ling a trading environment and then applying
(cid:75)(cid:92)(cid:90)(cid:95)(cid:101)(cid:96)(cid:90)(cid:88)(cid:99)(cid:23)(cid:88)(cid:101)(cid:91)(cid:23)(cid:61)(cid:108)(cid:101)(cid:91)(cid:88)(cid:100)(cid:92)(cid:101)(cid:107)(cid:88)(cid:99)(cid:23)(cid:74)(cid:107)(cid:105)(cid:88)(cid:107)(cid:92)(cid:94)(cid:96)(cid:92)(cid:106) specifi c indicators for that environment
• And much more
(cid:107)(cid:102)(cid:23)(cid:71)(cid:105)(cid:102)(cid:93)(cid:96)(cid:107)(cid:23)(cid:93)(cid:105)(cid:102)(cid:100)(cid:23)(cid:68)(cid:88)(cid:105)(cid:98)(cid:92)(cid:107)(cid:23)(cid:68)(cid:102)(cid:109)(cid:92)(cid:106)
Both informative and accessible, the Second Edition of
(cid:66)(cid:56)(cid:75)(cid:63)(cid:80)(cid:23)(cid:67)(cid:64)(cid:60)(cid:69)
Day Trading and Swing Trading the Currency Market
Director of Currency Research at GFT
EAN: 9780470377369 ISBN 978-0-470-37736-9
Technical
and
Fundamental
Strategies
to
Profit
from
Market
Moves
DAY
TRADING
&
SWING
TRADING
the
CURRENCY
MARKET
(continued from front flap) LIEN
(continued on back flap)

P1:JYS
fm JWBK299-Lein September23,2008 9:43 Printer:Yettocome
ii

P1:JYS
fm JWBK299-Lein September23,2008 9:43 Printer:Yettocome
Day Trading
and Swing
Trading the
Currency
Market
i

P1:JYS
fm JWBK299-Lein September23,2008 9:43 Printer:Yettocome
Founded in 1807, John Wiley & Sons is the oldest independent publish-
ingcompanyintheUnitedStates.WithofficesinNorthAmerica,Europe,
AustraliaandAsia,Wileyisgloballycommittedtodevelopingandmarket-
ing print and electronic products and services for our customers’ profes-
sionalandpersonalknowledgeandunderstanding.
TheWileyTradingseriesfeaturesbooksbytraderswhohavesurvived
the market’s ever changing temperament and have prospered—some by
reinventing systems, others by getting back to basics. Whether a novice
trader, professional or somewhere in-between, these books will provide
theadviceandstrategiesneededtoprospertodayandwellintothefuture.
Foralistofavailabletitles,visitourWebsiteatwww.WileyFinance.com.
ii

P1:JYS
fm JWBK299-Lein September23,2008 9:43 Printer:Yettocome
Day Trading
and Swing
Trading the
Currency
Market
Second Edition
Technical and Fundamental
Strategies to Profit from
Market Moves
KATHY LIEN
Director of Currency Research, GFT
JohnWiley&Sons,Inc.
iii

P1:JYS
fm JWBK299-Lein September23,2008 9:43 Printer:Yettocome
Copyright(cid:1)C 2009byKathyLien.Allrightsreserved.
PublishedbyJohnWiley&Sons,Inc.,Hoboken,NewJersey.
PublishedsimultaneouslyinCanada.
Nopartofthispublicationmaybereproduced,storedinaretrievalsystem,ortransmittedin
anyformorbyanymeans,electronic,mechanical,photocopying,recording,scanning,or
otherwise,exceptaspermittedunderSection107or108ofthe1976UnitedStatesCopyright
Act,withouteitherthepriorwrittenpermissionofthePublisher,orauthorizationthrough
paymentoftheappropriateper-copyfeetotheCopyrightClearanceCenter,Inc.,222
RosewoodDrive,Danvers,MA01923,(978)750-8400,fax(978)646-8600,oronthewebat
www.copyright.com.RequeststothePublisherforpermissionshouldbeaddressedtothe
PermissionsDepartment,JohnWiley&Sons,Inc.,111RiverStreet,Hoboken,NJ07030,(201)
748-6011,fax(201)748-6008,oronlineathttp://www.wiley.com/go/permissions.
LimitofLiability/DisclaimerofWarranty:Whilethepublisherandauthorhaveusedtheirbest
effortsinpreparingthisbook,theymakenorepresentationsorwarrantieswithrespecttothe
accuracyorcompletenessofthecontentsofthisbookandspecificallydisclaimanyimplied
warrantiesofmerchantabilityorfitnessforaparticularpurpose.Nowarrantymaybecreated
orextendedbysalesrepresentativesorwrittensalesmaterials.Theadviceandstrategies
containedhereinmaynotbesuitableforyoursituation.Youshouldconsultwitha
professionalwhereappropriate.Neitherthepublishernorauthorshallbeliableforanylossof
profitoranyothercommercialdamages,includingbutnotlimitedtospecial,incidental,
consequential,orotherdamages.
Forgeneralinformationonourotherproductsandservicesorfortechnicalsupport,please
contactourCustomerCareDepartmentwithintheUnitedStatesat(800)762-2974,outsidethe
UnitedStatesat(317)572-3993orfax(317)572-4002.
Wileyalsopublishesitsbooksinavarietyofelectronicformats.Somecontentthatappearsin
printmaynotbeavailableinelectronicbooks.FormoreinformationaboutWileyproducts,
visitourwebsiteatwww.wiley.com.
LibraryofCongressCataloging-in-PublicationData:
Lien,Kathy,1980–
Daytradingandswingtradingthecurrencymarket:technicalandfundamentalstrategies
toprofitfrommarketmoves/KathyLien.–2nded.
p.cm.–(Wileytradingseries)
Rev.ed.of:Daytradingthecurrencymarket.c2006.
Includesindex.
ISBN978-0-470-37736-9(cloth)
1.Foreignexchangefutures. 2.Foreignexchangemarket. 3.Speculation. I.Lien,
Kathy,1980–. Daytradingthecurrencymarket. II.Title.
HG3853.L54 2009
332.4(cid:2)5–dc22
2008034576
PrintedintheUnitedStatesofAmerica.
10 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1
iv

P1:JYS
fm JWBK299-Lein September23,2008 9:43 Printer:Yettocome
Contents
Preface vii
Acknowledgments xiii
CHAPTER 1 Foreign Exchange—The Fastest-Growing
Market of Our Time 1
CHAPTER 2 Historical Events in the FX Market 21
CHAPTER 3 What Moves the Currency Market in the
Long Term? 37
CHAPTER 4 What Moves the Market in the Short Term? 59
CHAPTER 5 What Are the Best Times to Trade for
Individual Currency Pairs? 67
CHAPTER 6 What Are Currency Correlations and How
Do Traders Use Them? 75
CHAPTER 7 Seasonality—How It Applies to the
FX Market 81
CHAPTER 8 Trade Parameters for Different Market
Conditions 91
CHAPTER 9 Technical Trading Strategies 109
CHAPTER 10 Fundamental Trading Strategies 165
v

P1:JYS
fm JWBK299-Lein September23,2008 9:43 Printer:Yettocome
vi CONTENTS
CHAPTER 11 How to Trade Like a Hedge Fund Manager 207
CHAPTER 12 Profiles and Unique Characteristics of
Major Currency Pairs 215
About the Author 273
Index 275

P1:JYS
fm JWBK299-Lein September23,2008 9:43 Printer:Yettocome
Preface
S
ince the first edition of Day Trading the Currency Market, which
waspublishedin2005,theforeignexchangemarkethaschangeddra-
matically.Themostnotablechangeisthefactthatdailyaveragevol-
umenowexceeds$3trillion,a70percentjumpoverthepastthreeyears.
Asadirectresultofthissurgeininterest,moreparticipantshaveflooded
themarketswithdifferentwaystotradecurrencies.
ThepopularityoftheDayTradingtheCurrencyMarketbookhasen-
couraged me to give the second edition a twist—this time I have added
swingtradingstrategies!
Afterhavingtaughtseminarsacrossthecountryonhowtotradecur-
rencies,Ihavereceivedalotofgoodfeedbackaboutthebook(thankyou!),
andIhopethateveryonewillenjoythenewtechniquesinthesecondedi-
tionjustasmuchasyouhaveenjoyedthestrategiesandlessonsinthefirst!
The original book focuses heavily on fundamentals, but the new edi-
tion includes chapters on trading methodologies, statistical analysis, and,
ofcourse,additionalstrategies.
Ihavealsoaddedcomprehensivesectionsonhowtotradelikeahedge
fundmanagerandtheimpactofseasonalityinthecurrencymarket.
IfyouarepickingupacopyofDay Trading and Swing Trading the
CurrencyMarketfortheveryfirsttime,youwillnotbedisappointed.Asa
traderfirstandananalystsecond,inthisbookIfocusonwhatmattersmost
tocurrencytraders.Thefirsteditionhasbeenoneofthetopresourcesfor
those looking for a good primer on how the currency markets work—the
technicalandfundamentaldriversaswellasactionabletradingstrategies.
Thereissomethingforeveryoneinthisbook,asitisdesignedforboth
thebeginnerandtheadvancedtrader.Inthisbook,Itrytoaccomplishtwo
majorgoals:totouchonthebasicsoftheFXmarketandthecurrencychar-
acteristics thatall traders, particularlyday traders, need toknow, as well
astogiveyoupracticalstrategiestostarttrading.DayTradingandSwing
Trading the Currency Market goes beyond what other currency trading
vii

P1:JYS
fm JWBK299-Lein September23,2008 9:43 Printer:Yettocome
viii PREFACE
books cover and delves into such interesting topics as the top market-
moving indicators for the U.S. dollar and what currency correlations are
andhowtousethem.Here’sabriefroadmaptowhetyourappetiteonthe
topicscoveredinthisbook.
FOREIGN EXCHANGE—THE
FASTEST-GROWING MARKET OF OUR TIME
If you are wondering whether you should get into the FX market, take a
look at some of the reasons why the largest market in the world has al-
ways been the market of choice for the big players such as hedge funds
and institutional investors. Learn about why the FX market has exploded
overthepastthreeyearsandtheadvantagesthattheFXspotmarkethas
overthemoretraditionalequitiesandfuturesmarkets—somethingthatthe
mostseasonedtradersoftheworldhaveknownfordecades.
HISTORICAL EVENTS IN THE FX MARKET
How can you trade the currency market without knowing some of the
major milestones that helped to shape the market into what it has be-
come today? There are countless events that are still talked about and
brought up despite the many years that have passed since they occurred.
This chapter covers Bretton Woods, the end of the Bretton Woods, the
Plaza Accord, George Soros and how he came to fame, the Asian finan-
cial crisis, the launch of the euro, and the bursting of the technology
bubble.
DIFFERENT WAYS TO TRADE
THE FX MARKET
Over the past few years, the FX market has evolved significantly. Many
products have been introduced as alternative ways to invest in or trade
currencies.Foreignexchangespotistheoldestofthesemarketsandrep-
resents the underlying asset for a lot of the new derivative products. Op-
tions,futures,andforwardsarethenextoldest,butforwardsaregenerally
limitedtoanonretailaudience.Anentirebookcanbededicatedtothedif-
ferences between all of the new derivative products, but for the purpose

Preface ix
of this new edition, Iprovide some basic descriptions as well as general
advantages and disadvantages (there may be many others that are not in-
cludedinthisnewsection).
HOW TO COPY OTHER PEOPLE'S SUCCESS
& BUILD YOUR PEOPLE BASED PORTFOLIO
Would you like to save a lot of time, learn from Pros and see their strate-
gies? From now on, you can copy the best performing traders you like with
a “click” of a button. Try out Social Trading, where everybody connects to
trade and talk about the latest financial trends. Tap into the wisdom of the
crowds as you learn and copy from other traders in the network.
Social trading platforms have applied a "Facebook meets Twitter"- like
approach in which users build communities to share and discuss trades,
while sites rank top players and offer the chance to duplicate the trades of
the most successful peers.
WHAT ARE THE BEST TIMES TO TRADE FOR
INDIVIDUAL CURRENCY PAIRS?
Timing is everything in currency trading. In order to devise an effective
andtime-efficientinvestmentstrategy,itisimportanttonotetheamountof
marketactivityaroundtheclockinordertomaximizethenumberoftrad-
ingopportunitiesduringatrader’s ownmarkethours.Thissectionoutlines
thetypicaltradingactivityofmajorcurrencypairsindifferenttimezones
toseewhentheyarethemostvolatile.
WHAT ARE THE MOST MARKET-MOVING
ECONOMIC DATA?
For day traders, knowing which pieces of U.S. data move the market the
most can be extremely valuable. System traders need to know when it is
worthwhile to turn their systems off, while breakout traders will want to
knowwheretoplacetheirbigbetsbasedonwhateconomicreleasestyp-
ically set off the largest movements. This section, with updated data, not
onlyrankstheimportanceofU.S.data,butitalsoreportsontheknee-jerk

P1:JYS
fm JWBK299-Lein September23,2008 9:43 Printer:Yettocome
x PREFACE
reaction in pip values and whether there is usually a follow-through over
theremainderoftheday.
WHAT ARE CURRENCY CORRELATIONS AND
HOW DO TRADERS USE THEM?
Everything in the currency market is interrelated to some extent, and
knowingthedirectionandstrengthoftherelationshipsbetweendifferent
currencypairscanbeanaddedadvantageforalltraders.Whentradingin
the FX market, one of the most important facts to remember in creating
a strategy is that no currency pair is isolated. Knowing how closely cor-
related the currency pairs are in your portfolio is a great way to measure
exposureandrisk.Manytradersmayfindthemselvesthinkingthattheyare
diversifyingtheirportfoliobyinvestingindifferentcurrencypairs,butfew
realizethatmanypairsactuallyhaveatendencytomoveinthesamedirec-
tionoroppositetoeachotherhistorically.Thecorrelationsbetweenpairs
can be strong or weak and last for weeks, months, or even years, which
makeslearninghowtouseandcalculatecorrelationextremelyimportant.
Newcorrelationshavebeenaddedforthisedition.
HOW TO TRADE LIKE A HEDGE
FUND MANAGER
Thisnewchapteronhowtotradelikeahedgefundmanagerisreallyabout
thestepstodevelopingasuccessfultradingstrategy.Havingworkedwith
many money managers and been involved in the process of launching
managed fund products, I have realized that all money managers work in
asimilarway.Theirstrategiesmaybedifferent,butthewaytheygoabout
developing these strategies is not. This section includes the five steps to
thinkingandtradinglikeahedgefundmanager.
SEASONALITY IN THE CURRENCY MARKET
Mosttradersattempttoanalyzethefuturedirectionofcurrenciesbyusing
either fundamental or technical analysis or, if they’re feeling particularly
crafty,acombinationofboth.However,manytradersmaynotrealizethat
the clearest way to analyze past price behavior may be to look at price
activityitself,withoutthenoiseofindicators.Onewaytodothisisthrough

P1:JYS
fm JWBK299-Lein September23,2008 9:43 Printer:Yettocome
Preface xi
seasonality, which may be a concept familiar to many stock traders. This
newchapterdiscussesseasonalityinthecurrencymarket.
TRADE PARAMETERS FOR DIFFERENT
MARKET CONDITIONS
Themostimportantfirststepforanytrader,regardlessofthemarketthat
you aretrading in, istocreate atrading journal. However, theFX trading
journalisnotjustanytradingjournal.Asidefromthetypicallistingofyour
tradeideasandexecutedtradeswithtargetsandstops,theFXtradingjour-
nalalsoteachesyouhowtocreateacurrencypairchecklistthattakesap-
proximately 10 minutes to fill out and gives you a near-immediate insight
on the exact technical picture for each currency pair. Trading effectively
meanshavingagameplan,andwesystematicallydissectagameplanfor
youinthischapter,teachingyouhowtofirstprofileatradingenvironment
andthenknowwhichindicatorstoapplyforthattradingenvironment.
TECHNICAL TRADING STRATEGIES
Thisisthemeatofthebookforadvancedtraders.Thissectioncoverssome
of my favorite trading strategies for day and swing traders. Each strategy
comeswithrulesandexamples.Threenewstrategieshavebeenaddedto
this chapter, including how to trade news, how to effectively time mar-
ket turns, and how to capture a new shift in momentum. Many of these
strategiesexploitspecificcharacteristicsoftheFXmarketthathavebeen
observedacrosstime.Therearestrategiesforalltypesoftraders—range,
trend,andbreakout.
FUNDAMENTAL TRADING STRATEGIES
Thefundamentalstrategieschapterismoreformedium-termswingtraders
whogonotfor15to20pointsbutfor150to200pointsormore.Thissec-
tion will teach you how to trade off commodity prices, fixed income in-
struments,andoptionvolatilities.Italsocoversintervention-basedtrades,
macro-event-driven trades, and the secret moneymaking strategies used
by hedge funds between 2002 and 2004, which is the leveraged carry
trade.

P1:JYS
fm JWBK299-Lein September23,2008 9:43 Printer:Yettocome
xii PREFACE
PROFILES AND UNIQUE CHARACTERISTICS
OF THE MAJOR CURRENCY PAIRS
Thefinalchapterofthisbookisprobablyoneofthemostvaluable.Thisup-
datedmaterialgoesovertheuniquecharacteristicsofeachmajorcurrency
pair:whentheyaremostactive,whatdrivestheirpriceaction,andwhich
economic data releases are most important. A broad economic overview
andalookintoeachcentralbank’smonetarypolicypracticesaregiven.
Ihopeyouenjoythebook!

P1:JYS
fm JWBK299-Lein September23,2008 9:43 Printer:Yettocome
Acknowledgments
T
hankyoutomywonderfulteamfortheirinvaluableresearchand
support:
BorisSchlossberg
RichardLee
SamShenker
MelissaTuzzolo
DanielChen
BoscoCheng
JennyTang
VincentOrtiz
JohnKicklighter
EhrenGoossens
Andothers:
KristianKerr
RandalNishina
TheEntireStaffatFXCM
xiii

P1:JYS
fm JWBK299-Lein September23,2008 9:43 Printer:Yettocome
xiv

P1:JYS
c01 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 17:39 Printer:Yettocome
C H A P T E R 1
Foreign
Exchange—The
Fastest-Growing
Market of
Our Time
T
he foreign exchange market is the generic term for the worldwide
institutions that exist to exchange or trade currencies. Foreign ex-
changeisoftenreferredtoas“forex”or“FX.”Theforeignexchange
marketisanover-the-counter(OTC)market,whichmeansthatthereisno
centralexchangeandclearinghousewhereordersarematched.FXdealers
andmarketmakersaroundtheworldarelinkedtoeachotheraroundthe
clockviatelephone,computer,andfax,creatingonecohesivemarket.
Overthepastfewyears,currencieshavebecomeoneofthemostpop-
ularproductstotrade.Noothermarketcanclaima71percentsurgeinvol-
umeoverathree-yeartimeframe.AccordingtotheTriennialCentralBank
SurveyoftheforeignexchangemarketconductedbytheBankforInterna-
tionalSettlementsandpublishedinOctober2007,dailytradingvolumehit
a record of $3.2 trillion, up from $1.9 trillion in 2004. This is estimated to
beapproximately20timeslargerthanthedailytradingvolumeoftheNew
YorkStockExchangeandtheNasdaqcombined.Althoughtherearemany
reasonsthatcanbeusedtoexplainthissurgeinactivity,oneofthemost
interesting is that the timing of the surge in volume coincides fairly well
withtheemergenceofonlinecurrencytradingfortheindividualinvestor.
EFFECTS OF CURRENCIES ON STOCKS
AND BONDS
It is not the advent of online currency trading alone that has helped to
increase the overall market’s volume. With the volatility in the currency
markets over the past few years, many traders are also becoming more
1

P1:JYS
c01 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 17:39 Printer:Yettocome
2 DAYTRADINGANDSWINGTRADINGTHECURRENCYMARKET
awareofthefactthatcurrencymovementsalsoimpactthestockandbond
markets. Therefore, if stocks, bonds, and commodities traders want to
make more educated trading decisions, it is important for them to follow
the currency markets as well. The following are some of the examples of
howcurrencymovementsimpactedstockandbondmarketmovementsin
thepast.
EUR/USD and Corporate Profitability
For stock market traders, particularly those who invest in European cor-
porationsthatexportatremendousamountofgoodstotheUnitedStates,
monitoring exchange rates are essential to predicting earnings and cor-
porateprofitability.Since2003,Europeanmanufacturershavecomplained
extensively about the rapid rise in the euro and the weakness in the U.S.
dollar. The main culprit for the dollar’s sell-off has been the country’s
rapidlygrowingtradeandbudgetdeficits.ThiscausedtheEUR/USD(euro-
to-dollar)exchangeratetosurge,whichtookasignificanttollontheprof-
itability of European corporations because a higher exchange rate makes
the goods of European exporters more expensive to U.S. consumers. In
2003,inadequatehedgingshavedapproximately1billioneurosfromVolk-
swagen’s profits, while Dutch State Mines (DSM), a chemicals group,
warned that a 1 percent move in the EUR/USD rate would reduce prof-
its by between 7 million and 11 million euros. Unfortunately, inadequate
hedging is still a reality in Europe in 2008, which makes monitoring the
EUR/USDexchangerateevenmoreimportantinforecastingtheearnings
andprofitabilityofEuropeanexporters.
Nikkei and U.S. Dollar
Traders exposed to Japanese equities also need to be aware of the de-
velopments that are occurring in the U.S. dollar and how they affect the
Nikkei rally. Japan has recently come out of 10 years of stagnation. Dur-
ing this time, U.S. mutual funds and hedge funds were grossly under-
weight Japanese equities. When the economy began to rebound, these
funds rushed in to make changes to their portfolios for fear of missing
a great opportunity to take advantage of Japan’s recovery. Hedge funds
borrowed a lot of dollars in order to pay for increased exposure, but the
problemwasthattheirborrowingsareverysensitivetoU.S.interestrates
andtheFederalReserve’smonetarypolicytighteningcycle.Increasedbor-
rowing costs for the dollar could derail the Nikkei’s rally because higher
rates will raise the dollar’s financing costs. Yet with the huge current ac-
countdeficit,theFedmightneedtocontinueraisingratestoincreasethe
attractiveness of dollar-denominated assets. Therefore, continual rate

P1:JYS
c01 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 17:39 Printer:Yettocome
ForeignExchange—TheFastest-GrowingMarketofOurTime 3
hikes coupled with slowing growth in Japan may make it less profitable
forfundstobeoverleveragedandoverlyexposedtoJapanesestocks.Asa
result,howtheU.S.dollarmovesalsoplaysaroleinthefuturedirectionof
theNikkei.
George Soros
In terms of bonds, one of the most talked-about men in the history of
the FX markets is George Soros. He is notorious for being “the man who
broke the Bank of England.” This is covered in more detail in our history
section(Chapter2),butinanutshell,in1990theU.K.decidedtojointhe
Exchange Rate Mechanism (ERM) of the European Monetary System in
order to take part in the low-inflationary yet stable economy generated
by the Germany’s central bank, which is also known as the Bundesbank.
This alliance tied the pound to the deutsche mark, which meant that the
U.K. was subject to the monetary policies enforced by the Bundesbank.
Intheearly1990s,Germanyaggressivelyincreasedinterestratestoavoid
theinflationaryeffectsrelatedtoGermanreunification.However,national
pride and the commitment of fixing exchange rates within the ERM
prevented the U.K. from devaluing the pound. On Wednesday, September
16, 1992, also known as Black Wednesday, George Soros leveraged the
entire value of his fund ($1 billion) and sold $10 billion worth of pounds
tobetagainsttheExchangeRateMechanism.Thisessentially“broke”the
Bank of England and forced the devaluation of its currency. In a matter
of 24 hours, the British pound fell approximately 5 percent or 5,000 pips.
TheBankofEnglandpromisedtoraiseratesinordertotemptspeculators
to buy pounds. As a result, the bond markets also experienced tremen-
dous volatility, with the one-month U.K. London Interbank Offered Rate
(LIBOR) increasing 1 percent and then retracing the gain over the next
24 hours. If bond traders were completely oblivious to what was going
on in the currency markets, they probably would have found themselves
dumbstruckinthefaceofsucharapidgyrationinyields.
COMPARING THE FX MARKET
WITH FUTURES AND EQUITIES
Traditionally FX has not been the most popular market to trade because
access to the foreign exchange market was primarily restricted to hedge
funds,CommodityTradingAdvisorswhomanagelargeamountsofcapital,
major corporations, and institutional investors due to regulation, capital
requirements,andtechnology.Oneoftheprimaryreasonswhytheforeign
exchangemarkethastraditionallybeenthemarketofchoicefortheselarge

P1:JYS
c01 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 17:39 Printer:Yettocome
4 DAYTRADINGANDSWINGTRADINGTHECURRENCYMARKET
playersisbecausetheriskthatatradertakesisfullycustomizable.Thatis,
onetradercoulduseahundredtimesleveragewhileanothermaychoose
tonotbeleveragedatall.However,inrecentyearsmanyfirmshaveopened
uptheforeignexchangemarkettoretailtraders,providingleveragedtrad-
ingaswellasfreeinstantaneousexecutionplatforms,charts,andreal-time
news. As a result, foreign exchange trading has surged in popularity, in-
creasingitsattractivenessasanalternativeassetclasstotrade.
Manyequityandfuturestradershavebeguntoaddcurrenciesintothe
mixofproductsthattheytradeorhaveevenswitchedtotradingcurrencies
exclusively.Thereasonwhythistrendisemergingisbecausethesetraders
arebeginningtorealizethattherearemanyattractiveattributestotrading
FXoverequitiesorfutures.
FX versus Equities
Herearesomeofthekeyattributesoftradingspotforeignexchangecom-
paredtotheequitiesmarket.
FXMarketKeyAttributes
(cid:1)
Foreign exchange is the largest market in the world and has growing
liquidity.
(cid:1)
Thereis24-houraround-the-clocktrading.
(cid:1)
Traderscanprofitinbothbullandbearmarkets.
(cid:1)
Therearenotradingcurbs.
(cid:1)
Instantexecutabletradingplatformminimizesslippageanderrors.
(cid:1)
Even though higher leverage increases risk, many traders see trading
theFXmarketasgettingmorebangforthebuck.
EquitiesMarketAttributes
(cid:1)
Thereisdecentmarketliquidity,butitdependsmainlyonthestock’s
dailyvolume.
(cid:1)
Themarketisavailablefortradingonlyfrom9:30a.m.to4:00p.m.New
Yorktimewithlimitedafter-hourstrading.
(cid:1)
The existence of exchange fees results in higher costs and commis-
sions.
(cid:1)
There is an uptick rule to short stocks, which many day traders find
frustrating.Tradingcurbsmaybefrustratingfordaytradersaswell.
(cid:1)
Thenumberofstepsinvolvedincompletingatradeincreasesslippage
anderror.
ThevolumeandliquiditypresentintheFXmarket,oneofthemostliq-
uidmarketsintheworld,haveallowedtraderstoaccessa24-hourmarket

P1:JYS
c01 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 17:39 Printer:Yettocome
ForeignExchange—TheFastest-GrowingMarketofOurTime 5
with low transaction costs, high leverage, the ability to profit in both bull
and bear markets, minimized error rates, limited slippage, and no trading
curbs or uptick rules. Traders can implement in the FX market the same
strategies that they use in analyzing the equity markets. For fundamental
traders,countriescanbeanalyzedlikestocks.Fortechnicaltraders,theFX
market is perfect for technical analysis, since it is already the most com-
monlyusedanalysistoolbyprofessionaltraders.Itisthereforeimportant
totakeacloserlookattheindividualattributesoftheFXmarkettoreally
understandwhythisissuchanattractivemarkettotrade.
Around-the-Clock 24-Hour Market Oneoftheprimaryreasonswhy
theFXmarketispopularisbecauseforactivetradersitistheidealmarket
to trade. Its 24-hour nature offers traders instant access to the markets
at all hours of the day for immediate response to global developments.
This characteristic also gives traders the added flexibility of determining
theirtradingday.Activedaytradersnolongerhavetowaitfortheequities
market to open at 9:30 a.m. New York time to begin trading. If there is a
significantannouncementordevelopmenteitherdomesticallyoroverseas
between4:00p.m.NewYorktimeand9:30a.m.NewYorktime,mostday
traders will have to wait for the exchanges to open at 9:30 a.m. to place
trades.Bythattime,inalllikelihood,unlessyouhaveaccesstoelectronic
communication networks (ECNs) such as Instinet for premarket trading,
themarketwouldhavegappeduporgappeddownagainstyou.Allofthe
professionals would have already priced in the event before the average
tradercanevenaccessthemarket.
In addition, most people who want to trade also have a full-time job
duringtheday.TheabilitytotradeafterhoursmakestheFXmarketamuch
moreconvenientmarketforalltraders.Differenttimesofthedaywillof-
fer different trading opportunities as the global financial centers around
the world are all actively involved in foreign exchange. With the FX mar-
ket, trading after hours with a large online FX broker provides the same
liquidityandspreadasatanyothertimeofday.
Asaguideline, at5:00p.m.Sunday, NewYorktime,tradingbeginsas
the markets open in Sydney, Australia. Then the Tokyo markets open at
7:00p.m.NewYorktime.Next,SingaporeandHongKongopenat9:00p.m.
EST,followedbytheEuropeanmarketsinFrankfurt(2:00a.m.)andthen
London (3:00 a.m.). By 4:00 a.m. the European markets are in full swing,
andAsiahasconcludeditstradingday.TheU.S.marketsopenfirstinNew
Yorkaround8:00a.m.MondayasEuropewindsdown.By5:00p.m.,Sydney
issettoreopenonceagain.
Themostactivetradinghoursarewhenthemarketsoverlap;forexam-
ple,AsiaandEuropetradingoverlapsbetween2:00a.m.andapproximately
4:00 a.m., Europe and the United States overlap between 8:00 a.m. and

P1:JYS
c01 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 17:39 Printer:Yettocome
6 DAYTRADINGANDSWINGTRADINGTHECURRENCYMARKET
approximately 11:00 a.m., while the United States and Asia overlap be-
tween 5:00 p.m. and 9:00 p.m. During New York and London hours all
of the currency pairs trade actively, whereas during the Asian hours the
tradingactivityforpairssuchastheGBP/JPYandAUD/JPYtendtopeak.
Lower Transaction Costs The existence of much lower transaction
costsalsomakestheFXmarketparticularlyattractive.Intheequitiesmar-
ket,tradersmustpayaspread(i.e.,thedifferencebetweenthebuyandsell
price)and/oracommission.Withonlineequitybrokers,commissionscan
run upwards of $20 per trade. With positions of $100,000, average round-
tripcommissionscouldbeashighas$120.Theover-the-counterstructure
oftheFXmarketeliminatesexchangeandclearingfees,whichinturnlow-
erstransactioncosts.Costsarefurtherreducedbytheefficienciescreated
byapurelyelectronicmarketplacethatallowsclientstodealdirectlywith
the market maker, eliminating both ticket costs and middlemen. Because
thecurrencymarketoffersaround-the-clockliquidity,tradersreceivetight
competitivespreadsbothintradayandatnight.Equitiestradersaremore
vulnerabletoliquidityriskandtypicallyreceivewiderdealingspreads,es-
peciallyduringafter-hourstrading.
LowtransactioncostsmakeonlineFXtradingthebestmarkettotrade
forshort-termtraders.Foranactiveequitytraderwhotypicallyplaces30
trades a day, at a $20 commission per trade you would have to pay up to
$600indailytransactioncosts.Thisisasignificantamountofmoneythat
woulddefinitelytakealargecutoutofprofitsordeepenlosses.Thereason
why costs are so high is because there are several people involved in an
equity transaction. More specifically, for each trade there is a broker, the
exchange,andthespecialist.Allofthesepartiesneedtobepaid,andtheir
paymentcomesintheformofcommissionandclearingfees.IntheFXmar-
ket,becauseitisdecentralizedwithnoexchangeorclearinghouse(every-
thingistakencareofbythemarketmaker),thesefeesarenotapplicable.
CustomizableLeverage Eventhoughmanypeoplerealizethathigher
leveragecomeswithrisks,tradersarehumansandfewofthemfinditeasy
to turn away the opportunity to trade on someone else’s money. The FX
market caters perfectly to these traders by offering the highest leverage
availableforanymarket.Mostonlinecurrencyfirmsoffer100timeslever-
age on regular-sized accounts and up to 200 times leverage on the minia-
tureaccounts.Comparethattothe2timesleverageofferedtotheaverage
equityinvestorandthe10timescapitalthatistypicallyofferedtothepro-
fessionaltrader,andyoucanseewhymanytradershaveturnedtothefor-
eign exchange market. The margin deposit for leverage in the FX market
isnotseenasadownpaymentonapurchaseofequity,asmanyperceive
margins to be in the stock markets. Rather, the margin is a performance

P1:JYS
c01 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 17:39 Printer:Yettocome
ForeignExchange—TheFastest-GrowingMarketofOurTime 7
bond, or good faith deposit, to ensure against trading losses. This is very
useful to short-term day traders who need the enhancement in capital to
generate quick returns. Leverage is actually customizable, which means
thatthemorerisk-averseinvestorwhofeelscomfortableusingonly10or
20timesleverageornoleverageatallcanelecttodoso.However,lever-
ageisreallyadouble-edgedsword.Withoutproperriskmanagementahigh
degreeofleveragecanleadtolargelossesaswell.
Profit in Both Bull and Bear Markets IntheFXmarket,profitpo-
tentialsexistinbothbullandbearmarkets.Sincecurrencytradingalways
involves buying one currency and selling another, there is no structural
bias to the market. Therefore, if you are long one currency, you are also
short another. As a result, profit potentials exist equally in both upward-
trending and downward-trending markets. This is different from the eq-
uities market, where most traders go long instead of short stocks, so the
generalequityinvestmentcommunitytendstosufferinabearmarket.
No Trading Curbs or Uptick Rule The FX market is the largest
market in the world, forcing market makers to offer very competitive
prices.Unliketheequitiesmarket,thereisneveratimeintheFXmarkets
when trading curbs would take effect and trading would be halted, only
to gap when reopened. This eliminates missed profits due to archaic ex-
changeregulations.IntheFXmarket,traderswouldbeabletoplacetrades
24hoursadaywithvirtuallynodisruptions.
Online Trading Reduces Error Rates In general, a shorter trade
processminimizeserrors.Onlinecurrencytradingistypicallyathree-step
process. A trader would place an order on the platform, the FX dealing
desk would automatically execute it electronically, and the order confir-
mationwouldbepostedorloggedonthetrader’stradingstation.Typically,
thesethreestepswouldbecompletedinamatterofseconds.Foranequi-
ties trade, on the other hand, there is generally a five-step process. The
clientwouldcallhisorherbrokertoplaceanorder,thebrokersendsthe
order to the exchange floor, the specialist on the floor tries to match up
orders(thebrokercompeteswithotherbrokerstogetthebestfillforthe
client), the specialist executes the trade, and the client receives a confir-
mationfromthebroker.Asaresult,incurrencytradestheeliminationofa
middleman minimizestheerrorratesand increases theefficiency ofeach
transaction.
Limited Slippage Unlike the equity markets, many online FX market
makers provide instantaneous execution from real-time, two-way quotes.
These quotes are the prices at which the firms are willing to buy or sell

P1:JYS
c01 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 17:39 Printer:Yettocome
8 DAYTRADINGANDSWINGTRADINGTHECURRENCYMARKET
thequotedcurrency,ratherthanvagueindicationsofwherethemarketis
trading, which aren’t honored. Orders are executed and confirmed within
seconds.Robustsystemswouldneverrequestthesizeofatrader’spoten-
tialorder,orwhichsideofthemarkethe’strading,beforegivingabid/offer
quote. Inefficient dealers determine whether the investor is a buyer or a
seller,andshadethepricetoincreasetheirownprofitonthetransaction.
Theequitymarkettypicallyoperatesundera“nextbestorder”system,
underwhichyoumaynotgetexecutedatthepriceyouwish,butratherat
thenextbestpriceavailable.Forexample,let’ssayMicrosoftistradingat
$52.50.Ifyouenterabuyorderatthisprice,bythetimeitreachesthespe-
cialistontheexchangefloorthepricemayhaverisento$53.25.Inthiscase,
youwillnotgetexecutedat$52.50;youwillgetexecutedat$53.25,which
is essentially a loss of three-quarters of a point. The price transparency
providedbysomeofthebettermarketmakersensuresthattradersalways
receiveafairprice.
Perfect Market for Technical Analysis Fortechnicalanalysts,cur-
rencies rarely spend much time in tight trading ranges and have the ten-
dency to develop strong trends. Over 80 percent of volume is speculative
in nature, and as a result the market frequently overshoots and then cor-
rects itself. Technical analysis works well for the FX market and a tech-
nicallytrainedtradercaneasilyidentifynewtrendsandbreakouts,which
provide multiple opportunities to enter and exit positions. Charts and in-
dicators are used by all professional FX traders, and candlestick charts
are available in most charting packages. In addition, the most commonly
usedindicators—suchasFibonacciretracements,stochastics,movingav-
erage convergence/divergence (MACD), moving averages, (RSI), and sup-
port/resistancelevels—haveprovenvalidinmanyinstances.
In the GBP/USD chart in Figure 1.1, it is clear that Fibonacci retrace-
ments, moving averages, and stochastics have at one point or another
givensuccessfultradingsignals.Forexample,the50percentretracement
level has served as support for the GBP/USD throughout the month of
JanuaryandforapartofFebruary2005.Themovingaveragecrossoversof
the10-dayand20-daysimplemovingaveragesalsosuccessfullyforecasted
the sell-off in the GBP/USD on March 21, 2005. Equity traders who focus
ontechnicalanalysishavetheeasiesttransitionsincetheycanimplement
intheFXmarketthesametechnicalstrategiesthattheyuseintheequities
market.
AnalyzeStocksLikeCountries Tradingcurrenciesisnotdifficultfor
fundamentaltraders,either.Countriescanbeanalyzedjustlikestocks.For
example,ifyouanalyzegrowthratesofstocks,youcanusegrossdomes-
ticproduct(GDP)toanalyzethegrowthratesofcountries.Ifyouanalyze

P1:JYS
c01 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 17:39 Printer:Yettocome
ForeignExchange—TheFastest-GrowingMarketofOurTime 9
FIGURE 1.1 GBP/USDChart
(Source:www.eSignal.com)
inventory and production ratios, you can follow industrial production or
durablegoodsdata.Ifyoufollowsalesfigures,youcananalyzeretailsales
data.Aswithastockinvestment,itisbettertoinvestinthecurrencyofa
country that is growing faster and is in a better economic condition than
othercountries.Currencypricesreflectthebalanceofsupplyanddemand
forcurrencies.Twooftheprimaryfactorsaffectingsupplyanddemandof
currenciesareinterestratesandtheoverallstrengthoftheeconomy.Eco-
nomic indicators such as GDP, foreign investment, and the trade balance
reflectthegeneralhealthofaneconomyandarethereforeresponsiblefor
the underlying shifts in supply and demand for that currency. There is a
tremendousamountofdatareleasedatregularintervals,someofwhichis
moreimportantthanothers.Datarelatedtointerestratesandinternational
tradeislookedatthemostclosely.
If the market has uncertainty regarding interest rates, then any bit of
newsrelatingtointerestratescandirectlyaffectthecurrencymarket.Tra-
ditionally,ifacountryraisesitsinterestrate,thecurrencyofthatcountry
will strengthen in relation to other countries as investors shift assets to
that country to gain a higher return. Hikes in interest rates are generally
badnewsforstockmarkets,however.Someinvestorswilltransfermoney
out of a country’s stock market when interest rates are hiked, causing
the country’s currency to weaken. Determining which effect dominates
can be tricky, but generally there is a consensus beforehand as to what

P1:JYS
c01 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 17:39 Printer:Yettocome
10 DAYTRADINGANDSWINGTRADINGTHECURRENCYMARKET
the interest rate move will do. Indicators that have the biggest impact on
interest rates are the producer price index (PPI), consumer price index
(CPI), and GDP. Generally the timing of interest rate moves is known in
advance. They take place after regularly scheduled meetings by the Bank
of England (BOE), the U.S. Federal Reserve (Fed), the European Central
Bank(ECB),theBankofJapan(BOJ),andothercentralbanks.
The trade balance shows the net difference over a period of time be-
tweenanation’sexportsandimports.Whenacountryimportsmorethan
itexportsthetradebalancewillshowadeficit,whichisgenerallyconsid-
eredunfavorable.Forexample,ifU.S.dollarsaresoldforotherdomestic
national currencies (to pay for imports), the flow of dollars outside the
country will depreciate the value of the dollar. Similarly, if trade figures
show an increase in exports, dollars will flow into the United States and
appreciatethevalueofthedollar.Fromthestandpointofanationalecon-
omy,adeficitinandofitselfisnotnecessarilyabadthing.Ifthedeficitis
greater than market expectations, however, then it will trigger a negative
pricemovement.
FX versus Futures
TheFXmarketholdsadvantagesovernotonlytheequitymarket,butalso
the futures market. Many futures traders have added currency spot trad-
ing to their portfolios. After recapping the key spot foreign exchange at-
tributes,wecomparethefuturesattributes.
FXMarketKeyAttributes
(cid:1)
Itisthelargestmarketintheworldandhasgrowingliquidity.
(cid:1)
Thereis24-houraround-the-clocktrading.
(cid:1)
Traderscanprofitinbothbullandbearmarkets.
(cid:1)
Short selling is permitted without an uptick, and there are no trading
curbs.
(cid:1)
Instantexecutabletradingplatformminimizesslippageanderrors.
(cid:1)
Even though higher leverage increases risk, many traders see trading
theFXmarketasgettingmorebangforthebuck.
FuturesAttributes
(cid:1)
Market liquidity is limited, depending on the month of the contract
traded.
(cid:1)
Thepresenceofexchangefeesresultsinmorecostsandcommissions.
(cid:1)
Market hours for futures trading are much shorter than for spot FX
and are dependent on the product traded; each product may have

P1:JYS
c01 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 17:39 Printer:Yettocome
ForeignExchange—TheFastest-GrowingMarketofOurTime 11
different opening and closing hours, and there is limited after-hours
trading.
(cid:1)
Futures leverage is higher than leverage for equities, but still only a
fractionoftheleverageofferedinFX.
(cid:1)
Theretendtobeprolongedbearmarkets.
(cid:1)
Pittradingstructureincreaseserrorandslippage.
Liketheycanintheequitiesmarket,traderscanimplementintheFX
marketthesamestrategiesthattheyuseinanalyzingthefuturesmarkets.
Most futures traders are technical traders, and as mentioned in the equi-
ties section, the FX market is perfect for technical analysis. In fact, it is
themostcommonlyusedanalysistoolbyprofessionaltraders.Let’stakea
closerlookathowthefuturesmarketstacksupagainsttheFXmarket.
Comparing Market Hours and Liquidity Thevolumetradedinthe
FXmarketisestimatedtobemorethanfivetimesthatofthefuturesmar-
ket.TheFXmarketisopenfortrading24hoursaday,butthefuturesmar-
kethasconfusingmarkethoursthatvarybasedontheproducttraded.For
example,tradinggoldfuturesisopenonlybetween7:20a.m.and1:30p.m.
ontheNewYorkCommoditiesExchange(COMEX),whereasifyoutrade
crude oil futures on the New York Mercantile Exchange, trading is open
onlybetween8:30a.m.and2:10p.m.Thesevaryinghoursnotonlycreate
confusion,butalsomakeitdifficulttoactonbreakthroughannouncements
throughouttheremainderoftheday.
In addition, if you have a full-time job during the day and can trade
onlyafterhours,futureswouldbeaveryinconvenientmarketproductfor
you to trade. You would basically be placing orders based on past prices
and not current market prices. This lack of transparency makes trading
verycumbersome.WiththeFXmarket,ifyouchoosetotradeafterhours
through the right market makers, you can be assured that you would re-
ceivethesameliquidityandspreadasatanyothertimeofday.Inaddition,
eachtimezonehasitsownuniquenewsanddevelopmentsthatcouldmove
specificcurrencypairs.
Low to Zero Transaction Costs Inthefuturesmarket,tradersmust
payaspreadand/oracommission.Withfuturesbrokers,averagecommis-
sions can run close to $160 per trade on positions of $100,000 or greater.
Theover-the-counterstructureoftheFXmarketeliminatesexchangeand
clearing fees, which in turn lowers transaction costs. Costs are further
reduced by the efficiencies created by a purely electronic marketplace
that allows clients to deal directly with the market maker, eliminating
both ticket costs and middlemen. Because the currency market offers
around-the-clockliquidity,tradersreceivetight,competitivespreadsboth

P1:JYS
c01 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 17:39 Printer:Yettocome
12 DAYTRADINGANDSWINGTRADINGTHECURRENCYMARKET
intradayandatnight.Futurestradersaremorevulnerabletoliquidityrisk
and typically receive wider dealing spreads, especially during after-hours
trading.
LowtozerotransactioncostsmakeonlineFXtradingthebestmarket
totradeforshort-termtraders.Ifyouareanactivefuturestraderwhotypi-
callyplaces20tradesaday,at$100commissionpertrade,youwouldhave
to pay $2,000 in daily transaction costs. A typical futures trade involves a
broker,aFuturesCommissionMerchant(FCM)orderdesk,aclerkonthe
exchange floor, a runner, and a pit trader. All of these parties need to be
paid,andtheirpaymentcomesintheformofcommissionandclearingfees,
whereastheelectronicnatureoftheFXmarketminimizesthesecosts.
No Limit Up or Down Rules/Profit in Both Bull and Bear
Markets There is no limit down or limit up rule in the FX market, un-
like the tight restriction on the futures market. For example, on the S&P
500indexfutures,ifthecontractvaluefallsmorethan5percentfromthe
previous day’s close, limit down rules will come in effect whereby on a
5 percent move the index is allowed to trade only at or above this level
for the next 10 minutes. For a 20 percent decline, trading would be com-
pletelyhalted.DuetothedecentralizednatureoftheFXmarket,thereare
no exchange-enforced restrictions on daily activity. In effect, this elimi-
natesmissedprofitsduetoarchaicexchangeregulations.
Execution Quality and Speed/Low Error Rates Thefuturesmar-
ket is also known for inconsistent execution in terms of both pricing and
executiontime.Everyfuturestraderhasatsomepointintimeexperienced
ahalfhourorsowaitforamarketordertobefilled,onlytothenbeexe-
cutedatapricethatmaybefarawayfromwherethemarketwastrading
whentheinitialorderwasplaced.Evenwithelectronictradingandlimited
guaranteesofexecutionspeed,thepricesforfillsonmarketordersarefar
fromcertain.Thereasonforthisinefficiencyisthenumberofstepsthatare
involvedinplacingafuturestrade.Afuturestradeistypicallyaseven-step
process:
1. The client calls his or her broker and places a trade (or places it
online).
2. The trading desk receives the order, processes it, and routes it to the
FCMorderdeskontheexchangefloor.
3. TheFCMorderdeskpassestheordertotheorderclerk.
4. Theorderclerkhandstheordertoarunnerorsignalsittothepit.
5. Thetradingclerkgoestothepittoexecutethetrade.

P1:JYS
c01 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 17:39 Printer:Yettocome
ForeignExchange—TheFastest-GrowingMarketofOurTime 13
6. The trade confirmation goes to the runner or is signaled to the order
clerkandprocessedbytheFCMorderdesk.
7. The broker receives the trade confirmation and passes it on to the
client.
An FX trade, in comparison, is typically only a three-step process. A
trader would place an order on the platform, the FX dealing desk would
automatically execute it electronically, and the order confirmation would
bepostedorloggedonthetrader’stradingstation.Theeliminationofthe
additionalpartiesinvolvedinafuturestradeincreasesthespeedoftheFX
tradeexecutionanddecreaseserrors.
In addition, the futures market typically operates under a “next best
order” system, under which traders frequently do not get executed at the
initial market order price, but rather at the next best price available. For
example,let’ssayaclientislongfiveMarchDowJonesfuturescontracts
at 8800 with a stop order at 8700; if the price falls to this level, the order
willmostlikelybeexecutedat8690.This10-pointdifferencewouldbeat-
tributedtoslippage,whichisverycommoninthefuturesmarket.
On most FX trading stations, traders execute directly off of real-time
streamingprices.Barringanyunforeseencircumstances,thereisgenerally
nodiscrepancybetweenthedisplayedpriceandtheexecutionprice.This
holds true even during volatile times and fast-moving markets. In the
futuresmarket,incontrast,executionisuncertainbecauseallordersmust
be done on the exchange, creating a situation where liquidity is limited
by the number of participants, which in turn limits quantities that can be
tradedatagivenprice.Real-timestreamingpricesensurethatFXmarket
orders, stops, and limits are executed with minimal slippage and no
partialfills.
DIFFERENT WAYS TO TRADE FX
Over the past few years, the FX market has evolved significantly. Many
products have been introduced as alternative ways to invest in or trade
currencies. Foreign exchange spot is the oldest of these markets and
represents the underlying for many of the new derivative products. Op-
tions,futures,andforwardsarethenextoldest,butforwardsaregenerally
limitedtoanonretailaudience.Anentirebookcanbededicatedtothedif-
ferencesbetweenallofthenewderivativeproducts,butforthepurposeof
thisbook,herearesomebasicdescriptionsaswellasgeneraladvantages
and disadvantages (there may be many others that are not included in
thislist).

P1:JYS
c01 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 17:39 Printer:Yettocome
14 DAYTRADINGANDSWINGTRADINGTHECURRENCYMARKET
Spot
TheFXspotmarketisthelargestmarketintheworldwithadailyturnover
ofover$3trillion.
Quoting Convention Spotforexisquotedinpairs.IftheEUR/USDex-
change rate is 1.50, for example, it means that every euro buys 1.5 U.S.
dollars.Aone-pipmoverepresentsachangeinthelastdecimalplace,and
fortheEUR/USDitisworth$10ona100Klot.
Advantage The biggest advantages of trading the spot market are its
simplicity, liquidity, tight spreads, and around-the-clock trading. There is
no expiration or time decay, and accounts can also be opened with very
small initial balances. Real-time charts, news, and research are provided
freebymanybrokers.
Disadvantage The biggest disadvantage of the spot market is the fact
that it is an over-the-counter market, meaning that spot is not exchange
traded.UsuallycustomersdealdirectlywiththeirFXbroker,whosources
theirpricefeedfromtheinterbankmarket.Unfortunately,notallbrokers
areregulated,thoughthisisexpectedtochangeinthecomingyears.
Additional Comment A characteristic of the spot market that can be
looked at as both an advantage and a disadvantage is leverage, because
in the spot market leverage is very high. Some brokers offer as much as
400-to-1leverage.ManypeopleviewthegenerousleverageintheFXspot
marketasabenefit,butleverageisadouble-edgedsword,meaningthatit
exacerbateslossesaswellasgains.Toomuchleverageisalsotheprimary
reasonwhymanytradershavedifficultiesturningaprofit.Tradershavethe
optiontochangetheirleverage,buttheyusuallydon’t.
Futures
FX futures were created by the Chicago Mercantile Exchange (CME) in
1972 and were the first financial futures contracts ever created. The daily
notionalvolumeisapproximately$60billion.
Quoting Convention Futurescontractsarestandardizedandaresub-
ject to physical delivery. The prices of futures contracts are all quoted in
termsofU.S.dollarsperunitofothercurrencybeingtraded.Forexample,
the quotes would be given in U.S. dollars per euro or per Japanese yen.
Eachtickorpointequals0.0001.Eachcontractfortheeuro,forexample,
involvestradingthevalueof125,000euros.

P1:JYS
c01 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 17:39 Printer:Yettocome
ForeignExchange—TheFastest-GrowingMarketofOurTime 15
Advantage Thebiggestadvantageoftradingfuturesisthefactthatthe
transactions are conducted over an exchange. The market is very liquid
and is well regulated. As the counterparty to every trade, CME Clearing
eliminates the risk of credit default by any single counterparty. Price and
transactioninformationisreadilyavailable,andthetopfivebidsandoffers
canbeseenbyelectronictraders.
Disadvantage The contracts are standardized, which means that the
options are limited. Unless traders keep up with expiring contracts, they
are subject to physical delivery. Futures margins can be higher, which is
seenasadisadvantagebysometraders,andaccountminimumsaregener-
allyhigher.Commissionsandbrokeragefeesmayalsobehigher.
Leverageisusually5to1.
Options
Therearemanydifferentwaystotradecurrencyoptions.ThePhiladelphia
Stock Exchange, the International Securities Exchange (ISE), and the
ChicagoMercantileExchangeallofferoptionstradingoncurrencies.
Quoting Convention Withcurrencyoptions,quotingconventionsvary
depending on where the option is traded. At the Philadelphia Stock
Exchange, for example, euro currency options are quoted in terms of
U.S. dollars per unit of underlying currency, and each contract is worth
10,000 euros. The point value is $100 (i.e., one full Eurocent = currency
value × 100). At the International Securities Exchange, FX options have
underlying values expressed inforeigncurrency unitsperU.S.dollarthat
are modified to create an indexlike underlying. For example, if the cur-
rent exchange rate for USD/EUR is 0.7829, the underlying value for the
USD/EURISEFXoptionwouldbe78.29(0.7829×100).Thisformatisde-
signed to help investors easily adapt the trading strategies they currently
useforequityandindexoptions.Onepointisequal$100.TheChicagoMer-
cantileExchange,bycontrast,offersoptionstradingonfuturescontracts.
The trading unit is one CME futures contract (in euros, one contract =
125,000euros),andtheminimumticksizeis0.0001pereuro,whichisthe
equivalentpointvalueof$12.50.
Advantage Like futures contracts, options are exchange traded. They
allowforlimitedriskbecausethepremiumisthepredeterminedmaximum
loss.Theyalsoareinherentlyleveragedproducts,whichmaybeattractive
tosometraders.

P1:JYS
c01 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 17:39 Printer:Yettocome
16 DAYTRADINGANDSWINGTRADINGTHECURRENCYMARKET
Disadvantage The biggest disadvantage of trading FX options is the
timedecay.Also,therearelimitedtradinghoursforsomeofthedifferent
currencyoptionproducts.
Exchange-Traded Funds
Exchange-traded funds (ETFs) are the newest entries into the FX world,
withRydexInvestmentslaunchingitsfirstCurrencySharesin2005.Power-
Shares have also entered the market, but only with DB U.S. Dollar Index
Bullish and Bearish funds. CurrencyShares are traded on the New York
StockExchange(NYSE)likeanyotherexchange-listedsecurity.
Quoting Convention CurrencySharesaretradedlikeanystockortra-
ditional exchange traded fund on the NYSE Arca. Shares are traded in
oneormoreblocksof50,000shares.AshareintheCurrencySharesEuro
ETFforexampleistheequivalentof100Euros.PowerSharesontheother
handusuallyrepresentabasketofcurrencies.Thesharesaretradedonthe
AmericanStockExchange(AMEX).
Advantage For many equity market traders, the biggest advantage of
tradingRydex’sCurrencySharesistheirsimplicity,becausecurrenciesare
tradedinthesamewayasU.S.stocksandonthesameexchange.
Disadvantage ThebiggestdisadvantageisthattheCurrencySharesare
availablefortradingonlyuntil4:15p.m.,andtradingdoesnotrestartuntil
theNYSEopensthenextday.Becausethemarketcloses,exchange-traded
currency funds cater primarily to long-term traders. Also, since they are
traded on the NYSE, they are subject to standard stock commissions and
theyhaveexpenseratios.
WHO ARE THE PLAYERS
IN THE FX MARKET?
Since the foreign exchange market is an over-the-counter (OTC) market
withoutacentralizedexchange,competitionbetweenmarketmakerspro-
hibits monopolistic pricing strategies. If one market maker attempts to
drasticallyskewtheprice,thentraderssimplyhavetheoptiontofindan-
othermarketmaker.Moreover,spreadsarecloselywatchedtoensuremar-
ketmakersarenotwhimsicallyalteringthecostofthetrade.Manyequity
markets, in contrast, operate in a completely different fashion; the New
YorkStockExchange(NYSE),forinstance,isthesoleplacewherecompa-
nieslistedontheNYSEcanhavetheirstockstraded.Centralizedmarkets
areoperatedbywhatarereferredtoasspecialists,whilemarketmakersis

P1:JYS
c01 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 17:39 Printer:Yettocome
ForeignExchange—TheFastest-GrowingMarketofOurTime 17
thetermusedinreferencetodecentralizedmarketplaces.(SeeFigures1.2
and 1.3.) Since the NYSE is a centralized market, a stock traded on the
NYSE can have only 1 bid/ask quote at all times. Decentralized markets,
suchasforeignexchange,canhavemultiplemarketmakers—allofwhom
havetherighttoquotedifferentprices.Let’slookathowbothcentralized
anddecentralizedmarketsoperate.
Centralized Markets
By their very nature, centralized markets tend to be monopolistic: with
a single specialist controlling the market, prices can easily be skewed to
FIGURE 1.2 CentralizedMarketStructure
FIGURE 1.3 DecentralizedMarketStructure

P1:JYS
c01 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 17:39 Printer:Yettocome
18 DAYTRADINGANDSWINGTRADINGTHECURRENCYMARKET
accommodate the interests of the specialist, not those of the traders. If,
for example, the market is filled with sellers from whom the specialists
mustbuybutnoprospectivebuyersontheotherside,thespecialistswill
beforcedtobuyfromthesellersandbeunabletosellacommoditythatis
beingsoldoffandhencefallinginvalue.Insuchasituation,thespecialist
maysimplywidenthespread,therebyincreasingthecostofthetradeand
preventingadditionalparticipantsfromenteringthemarket.Orspecialists
cansimplydrasticallyalterthequotestheyareoffering,thusmanipulating
thepricetoaccommodatetheirownneeds.
Hierarchy of Participants in
Decentralized Market
While the foreign exchange market is decentralized and hence employs
multiplemarketmakersratherthanasinglespecialist,participantsinthe
FX market are organized into a hierarchy; those with superior credit ac-
cess,volumetransacted,andsophisticationreceivepriorityinthemarket.
At the top of the food chain is the interbank market, which trades
the highest volume per day in relatively few (mostly G-7) currencies. In
theinterbankmarket,thelargestbankscandealwitheachotherdirectly,
via interbank brokers or through electronic brokering systems like Elec-
tronic Brokering Services (EBS) or Reuters. The interbank market is a
credit-approved system where banks trade based solely on the credit re-
lationships theyhave established withone another. Allthebanks can see
therateseveryoneisdealingat;however,eachbankmusthaveaspecific
credit relationship with another bank in order to trade at the rates being
offered.OtherinstitutionssuchasonlineFXmarketmakers,hedgefunds,
andcorporationsmusttradeFXthroughcommercialbanks.
Many banks (small community banks, banks in emerging markets),
corporations,andinstitutionalinvestorsdonothaveaccesstotheserates
because they have no established credit lines with big banks. This forces
smallparticipantstodealthroughjustonebankfortheirforeignexchange
needs, and often this means much less competitive rates for the partic-
ipants further down the participant hierarchy. Those receiving the least
competitiveratesarecustomersofbanksandexchangeagencies.
Recentlytechnologyhasbrokendownthebarriersthatusedtostand
betweentheendusersofforeignexchangeservicesandtheinterbankmar-
ket. The online trading revolution opened its doors to retail clientele by
connecting market makers and market participants in an efficient, low-
costmanner.Inessence,theonlinetradingplatformservesasagatewayto
theliquidFXmarket.Averagetraderscannowtradealongsidethebiggest
banksintheworld,withsimilarpricingandexecution.Whatusedtobea
gamedominatedandcontrolledbythebigboysisslowlybecomingalevel

P1:JYS
c01 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 17:39 Printer:Yettocome
ForeignExchange—TheFastest-GrowingMarketofOurTime 19
playing field where individuals can profit and take advantage of the same
opportunitiesasbigbanks.FXisnolongeranoldboysclub,whichmeans
opportunityaboundsforaspiringonlinecurrencytraders.
Dealing Stations—Interbank Market The majority of FX volume
is transacted primarily through the interbank market. The leading banks
oftheworldtradewitheachotherelectronicallyovertwoplatforms—the
EBSandReutersDealing3000-SpotMatching.Bothplatformsoffertrading
inthemajorcurrencypairs;however,certaincurrencypairsaremoreliq-
uidandgenerallymorefrequentlytradedovereitherEBSorReutersD3000.
Thesetwocompaniesarecontinuallytryingtocaptureeachother’smarket
shares,butasaguide,hereisthebreakdownofwhichcurrenciesaremost
liquidovertheindividualplatforms:
EBS Reuters
EUR/USD GBP/USD
USD/JPY EUR/GBP
EUR/JPY USD/CAD
EUR/CHF AUD/USD
USD/CHF NZD/USD
Cross-currencypairsaregenerallynottradedovereitherplatform,but
instead arecalculated based on theratesof themajor currency pairsand
then offset using the “legs.” For example, if an interbank trader had a
client who wanted to go long AUD/JPY, the trader would most likely buy
AUD/USDovertheReutersD3000systemandbuyUSD/JPYoverEBS.The
trader would then multiply these rates and provide the client with the re-
spectiveAUD/JPYrate.Thesecurrencypairsarealsoknownassynthetic
currencies,andthishelpstoexplainwhyspreadsforcrosscurrenciesare
generallywiderthanspreadsforthemajorcurrencypairs.

P1:JYS
c01 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 17:39 Printer:Yettocome
20

P1:JYS
c02 JWBK299-Lein October3,2008 18:17 Printer:Yettocome
C H A P T E R 2
Historical Events
in the
FX Market
B
eforedivingintotheinnerworkingsofcurrencytrading,itisimpor-
tantforeverytradertounderstandafewofthekeymilestonesinthe
foreignexchangemarket,sinceeventothisdaytheystillrepresent
eventsthatarereferencedrepeatedlybyprofessionalforextraders.
BRETTON WOODS: ANOINTING
THE DOLLAR AS THE WORLD
CURRENCY (1944)
In July 1944, representatives of 44 nations met in Bretton Woods, New
Hampshire,tocreateanewinstitutionalarrangementforgoverningthein-
ternational economy in the years after World War II. After the war, most
agreed that international economic instability was one of the principal
causes of the war, and that such instability needed to be prevented in
thefuture.Theagreement,whichwasdevelopedbyrenownedeconomists
John Maynard Keynes and Harry Dexter White, was initially proposed to
GreatBritainasapartoftheLend-LeaseAct—anAmericanactdesignedto
assistGreatBritaininpostwarredevelopmentefforts.Aftervariousnegoti-
ations,thefinalformoftheBrettonWoodsAgreementconsistedofseveral
keypoints:
1. Theformationofkeyinternationalauthoritiesdesignedtopromotefair
tradeandinternationaleconomicharmony.
21

P1:JYS
c02 JWBK299-Lein October3,2008 18:17 Printer:Yettocome
22 DAYTRADINGANDSWINGTRADINGTHECURRENCYMARKET
2. Thefixingofexchangeratesamongcurrencies.
3. TheconvertibilitybetweengoldandtheU.S.dollar,thusempowering
theU.S.dollarasthereservecurrencyofchoicefortheworld.
Ofthethreeaforementionedparameters,onlythefirstpointisstillin
existence today. The organizations formed as a direct result of Bretton
Woods include the International Monetary Fund (IMF), World Bank, and
General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT), which are still in exis-
tence today and play a crucial role in the development and regulation of
internationaleconomies.TheIMF,forinstance,initiallyenforcedtheprice
of $35 per ounce of gold that was to be fixed under the Bretton Woods
system,aswellasthefixingofexchangeratesthatoccurredwhileBretton
Woodswasinoperation(andthefinancingrequiredtoensurethatfixedex-
changerateswouldnotcreatefundamentaldistortionsintheinternational
economy).
SincethedemiseofBrettonWoods,theIMFhasworkedcloselywith
anotherprogenyofBrettonWoods:theWorldBank.Together,thetwoin-
stitutions now regularly lend funds to developing nations, thus assisting
them in the development of a public infrastructure capable of supporting
asoundmercantileeconomythatcancontributeinaninternationalarena.
And,inordertoensurethatthesenationscanactuallyenjoyequalandle-
gitimate access to trade with their industrialized counterparts, the World
Bank and IMF must work closely with GATT. While GATT was initially
meant to be a temporary organization, it now operates to encourage the
dismantlingoftradebarriers—namelytariffsandquotas.
The Bretton Woods Agreement was in operation from 1944 to 1971,
when it was replaced with the Smithsonian Agreement, an international
contractofsortspioneeredbyU.S.PresidentRichardNixonoutofthene-
cessitytoaccommodateforBrettonWoods’shortcomings.Unfortunately,
the Smithsonian Agreement possessed the same critical weakness: while
it did not include gold/U.S. dollar convertibility, it did maintain fixed ex-
change rates—a facet that did not accommodate the ongoing U.S. trade
deficitandtheinternationalneedforaweakerU.S.dollar.Asaresult,the
SmithsonianAgreementwasshort-lived.
Ultimately, the exchange rates of the world evolved into a free mar-
ket, whereby supply and demand were the sole criteria that determined
thevalueofacurrency.Whilethisdidandstilldoesresultinanumberof
currency crises and greater volatility between currencies, it also allowed
the market to become self-regulating, and thus the market could dictate
theappropriatevalueofacurrencywithoutanyhindrances.
As for Bretton Woods, perhaps its most memorable contribution to
the international economic arena was its role in changing the perception

P1:JYS
c02 JWBK299-Lein October3,2008 18:17 Printer:Yettocome
HistoricalEventsintheFXMarket 23
regarding the U.S. dollar. While the British pound is still substantially
stronger,andwhiletheeuroisarevolutionarycurrencyblazingnewfron-
tiersinbothsocialbehaviorandinternationaltrade,theU.S.dollarremains
the world’s reserve currency of choice for the time being. This is undeni-
ably due largely in part to the Bretton Woods Agreement: by establishing
dollar/gold convertibility, the dollar’s role as the world’s most accessible
andreliablecurrencywasfirmlycemented.Andthus,whileBrettonWoods
maybeadoctrineofyesteryear,itsimpactontheU.S.dollarandinterna-
tionaleconomicsstillresonatestoday.
END OF BRETTON WOODS: FREE
MARKET CAPITALISM IS BORN (1971)
OnAugust15,1971,itbecameofficial:theBrettonWoodssystem,asystem
used to fix the value of a currency to the value of gold, was abandoned
onceandforall.Whileithadbeenexorcisedbefore,onlytosubsequently
emergeinanewform,thisfinaleradicationoftheBrettonWoodssystem
was truly its last stand: no longer would currencies be fixed in value to
gold, allowed to fluctuate only in a 1 percent range, but instead their fair
valuationcouldbedeterminedbyfreemarketbehaviorsuchastradeflows
andforeigndirectinvestment.
WhileU.S. President Nixon was confident that theend of theBretton
Woods system would bring about better times for the international econ-
omy,hewasnotabelieverthatthefreemarketcoulddictateacurrency’s
truevaluationinafairandcatastrophe-freemanner.Nixon,aswellasmost
economists,reasonedthatanentirelyunstructuredforeignexchangemar-
ketwouldresultincompetingdevaluations,whichinturnwouldleadtothe
breakdown of international trade and investment. The end result, Nixon
andhisboardofeconomicadvisersreasoned,wouldbeglobaldepression.
Accordingly, a few months later, the Smithsonian Agreement was in-
troduced.HailedbyPresidentNixonasthe“greatestmonetaryagreement
in the history of the world,” the Smithsonian Agreement strived to main-
tainfixedexchangerates,buttodosowithoutthebackingofgold.Itskey
differencefromtheBrettonWoodssystemwasthatthevalueofthedollar
could float in a range of 2.25 percent, as opposed to just 1 percent under
BrettonWoods.
Ultimately, the Smithsonian Agreement proved to be unfeasible as
well.Withoutexchangeratesfixedtogold,thefreemarketgoldpriceshot
up to $215 per ounce. Moreover, the U.S. trade deficit continued to grow,
and from a fundamental standpoint, the U.S. dollar needed to be deval-
ued beyond the 2.25 percent parameters established by the Smithsonian

P1:JYS
c02 JWBK299-Lein October3,2008 18:17 Printer:Yettocome
24 DAYTRADINGANDSWINGTRADINGTHECURRENCYMARKET
Agreement.Inlightoftheseproblems,theforeignexchangemarketswere
forcedtocloseinFebruary1972.
The forex markets reopened in March 1973, and this time they were
not bound by a Smithsonian Agreement: the value of the U.S. dollar was
tobedeterminedentirelybythemarket,asitsvaluewasnotfixed toany
commodity, nor was its exchange rate fluctuation confined to certain pa-
rameters. While this did provide the U.S. dollar, and other currencies by
default,theagilityrequiredtoadapttoanewandrapidlyevolvinginterna-
tionaltradingenvironment,italsosetthestageforunprecedentedinflation.
TheendofBrettonWoodsandtheSmithsonianAgreement,aswellascon-
flictsintheMiddleEastresultinginsubstantiallyhigheroilprices,helped
tocreatestagflation—thesynthesisofunemploymentandinflation—inthe
U.S.economy.Itwouldnotbeuntillaterinthedecade,whenFederalRe-
serve Chairman Paul Volcker initiated new economic policies and Presi-
dent Ronald Reagan introduced a new fiscal agenda, that the U.S. dollar
would return to normal valuations. And by then, the foreign exchange
marketshadthoroughlydeveloped,andwerenowcapableofservingamul-
titudeofpurposes:inadditiontoemployingalaissez-fairestyleofregula-
tionforinternationaltrade,theyalsowerebeginningtoattractspeculators
seeking to participate in a market with unrivaled liquidity and continued
growth.Ultimately,thedeathofBrettonWoodsin1971markedthebegin-
ningofaneweconomicera,onethatliberatedinternationaltradingwhile
alsoproliferatingspeculativeopportunities.
PLAZA ACCORD—DEVALUATION OF U.S.
DOLLAR (1985)
After the demise of all the various exchange rate regulatory mechanisms
that characterized the twentieth century—the gold standard, the Bretton
Woods standard, and the Smithsonian Agreement—the currency market
was left with virtually no regulation other than the mythical “invisible
hand” of free market capitalism, one that supposedly strived to create
economic balance through supply and demand. Unfortunately, due to
a number of unforeseen economic events—such as the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) oil crises, stagflation through-
out the 1970s, and drastic changes in the U.S. Federal Reserve’s fiscal
policy—supply and demand, in and of themselves, became insufficient
meansbywhichthecurrencymarketscouldberegulated.Asystemofsorts
wasneeded,butnotonethatwasinflexible.Fixationofcurrencyvaluesto
a commodity, such as gold, proved to be too rigid for economic develop-
ment,aswasalsothenotionoffixingmaximumexchangeratefluctuations.

P1:JYS
c02 JWBK299-Lein October3,2008 18:17 Printer:Yettocome
HistoricalEventsintheFXMarket 25
The balance between structure and rigidity was one that had plagued the
currency markets throughout the twentieth century, and while advance-
mentshadbeenmade,adefinitivesolutionwasstillgreatlyneeded.
Andhencein1985,therespectiveministersoffinanceandcentralbank
governorsoftheworld’sleadingeconomies—France,Germany,Japan,the
UnitedKingdom,andtheUnitedStates—convenedinNewYorkCitywith
the hopes of arranging a diplomatic agreement of sorts that would work
to optimize the economic effectiveness of the foreign exchange markets.
MeetingatthePlazaHotel,theinternationalleaderscametocertainagree-
ments regarding specific economies and the international economy as a
whole.
Across the world, inflation was at very low levels. In contrast to
the stagflation of the 1970s—where inflation was high and real economic
growth was low—the global economy in 1985 had done a complete 180-
degreeturn,asinflationwasnowlowbutgrowthwasstrong.
Whilelowinflation,evenwhencoupledwithrobusteconomicgrowth,
still allowed for low interest rates—a circumstance developing countries
particularlyenjoyed—therewasanimminentdangerofprotectionistpoli-
ciesliketariffsenteringtheeconomy.TheUnitedStateswasexperiencing
alargeandgrowingcurrentaccountdeficit,whileJapanandGermanywere
facinglargeandgrowingsurpluses.Animbalancesofundamentalinnature
couldcreateseriouseconomicdisequilibrium,whichinturnwouldresult
inadistortionoftheforeignexchangemarketsandthustheinternational
economy.
Theresultsofcurrentaccountimbalances,andtheprotectionistpoli-
ciesthatensued,requiredaction.Ultimately,itwasbelievedthattherapid
acceleration in the value of the U.S. dollar, which appreciated more than
80percentagainstthecurrenciesofitsmajortradingpartners,wasthepri-
maryculprit.TherisingvalueoftheU.S.dollarhelpedtocreateenormous
tradedeficits.Adollarwithalowervaluation,ontheotherhand,wouldbe
more conducive to stabilizing the international economy, as it would nat-
urallybringaboutagreaterbalancebetweentheexportingandimporting
capabilitiesofallcountries.
At the meeting in the Plaza Hotel, the United States persuaded the
other attendees to coordinate a multilateral intervention, and on Septem-
ber 22, 1985, the Plaza Accord was implemented. This agreement was de-
signedtoallowforacontrolleddeclineofthedollarandtheappreciation
of the main antidollar currencies. Each country agreed to changes to its
economic policies and to intervene in currency markets as necessary to
getthedollardown.TheUnitedStatesagreedtocutitsbudgetdeficitand
tolower interestrates.France, theUnitedKingdom, Germany, andJapan
allagreedtoraiseinterestrates.Germanyalsoagreedtoinstitutetaxcuts
whileJapanagreedtoletthevalueoftheyen“fullyreflecttheunderlying

P1:JYS
c02 JWBK299-Lein October3,2008 18:17 Printer:Yettocome
26 DAYTRADINGANDSWINGTRADINGTHECURRENCYMARKET
strengthoftheJapaneseeconomy.”However,theproblemwiththeactual
implementation of the Plaza Accord was that not every country adhered
toitspledges.TheUnitedStatesinparticulardidnotfollowthroughwith
itsinitialpromisetocutthebudgetdeficit.Japanwasseverelyhurtbythe
sharp rise in the yen, as its exporters were unable to remain competitive
overseas,anditisarguedthatthiseventuallytriggereda10-yearrecession
inJapan.TheUnitedStates,incontrast,enjoyedconsiderablegrowthand
pricestabilityasaresultoftheagreement.
Theeffectsofthemultilateralinterventionwereseenimmediately,and
withintwoyearsthedollarhadfallen46percentand50percentagainstthe
deutschemark(DEM)andtheJapaneseyen(JPY),respectively.Figure2.1
showsthisdepreciationoftheU.S.dollaragainsttheDEMandtheJPY.The
U.S.economybecamefarmoreexport-orientedasaresult,whileotherin-
dustrialcountrieslikeGermanyandJapanassumedtheroleofimporting.
Thisgraduallyresolvedthecurrentaccountdeficitsforthetimebeing,and
alsoensuredthatprotectionistpolicieswereminimalandnonthreatening.
Butperhapsmostimportantly,thePlazaAccordcementedtheroleofthe
centralbanksinregulatingexchangeratemovement:yes,therateswould
notbefixed,andhencewouldbedeterminedprimarilybysupplyandde-
mand;butultimately,suchaninvisiblehandisinsufficient,anditwasthe
FIGURE 2.1 PlazaAccordPriceAction

P1:JYS
c02 JWBK299-Lein October3,2008 18:17 Printer:Yettocome
HistoricalEventsintheFXMarket 27
rightandresponsibilityoftheworld’scentralbankstointerveneonbehalf
oftheinternationaleconomywhennecessary.
GEORGE SOROS—THE MAN WHO BROKE
THE BANK OF ENGLAND
When George Soros placed a $10 billion speculative bet against the U.K.
poundandwon,hebecameuniversallyknownas“themanwhobrokethe
BankofEngland.”Whetheryoulovehimorhatehim,Sorosledthecharge
inoneofthemostfascinatingeventsincurrencytradinghistory.
The United Kingdom Joins the Exchange
Rate Mechanism
In1979,aFranco-GermaninitiativesetuptheEuropeanMonetarySystem
(EMS) in order to stabilize exchange rates, reduce inflation, and prepare
for monetary integration. The Exchange Rate Mechanism (ERM), one of
the EMS’s main components, gave each participatory currency a central
exchangerateagainstabasketofcurrencies,theEuropeanCurrencyUnit
(ECU).Participants(initiallyFrance,Germany,Italy,theNetherlands,Bel-
gium,Denmark,Ireland,andLuxembourg)werethenrequiredtomaintain
theirexchangerateswithina2.25percentfluctuationbandaboveorbelow
each bilateral central rate. The ERM was an adjustable-peg system, and
nine realignments would occur between 1979 and 1987. While the United
Kingdomwasnotoneoftheoriginalmembers,itwouldeventuallyjoinin
1990atarateof2.95deutsche markstothepoundandwithafluctuation
bandof+/–6percent.
Untilmid-1992,theERMappearedtobeasuccess,asadisciplinaryef-
fect had reduced inflation throughout Europe under the leadership of the
GermanBundesbank.Thestabilitywouldn’tlast,however,asinternational
investors started worrying that the exchange rate values of several
currencies within the ERM were inappropriate. Following German reuni-
fication in 1989, the nation’s government spending surged, forcing the
Bundesbanktoprintmoremoney.Thisledtohigherinflationandleftthe
German central bank with little choice but to increase interest rates. But
theratehikehadadditionalrepercussions—becauseitplacedupwardpres-
sureontheGermanmark.Thisforcedothercentralbankstoraisetheirin-
terestratesaswell,soastomaintainthepeggedcurrencyexchangerates
(a direct application of Irving Fisher’s interest rate parity theory). Realiz-
ingthattheUnitedKingdom’sweakeconomyandhighunemploymentrate

P1:JYS
c02 JWBK299-Lein October3,2008 18:17 Printer:Yettocome
28 DAYTRADINGANDSWINGTRADINGTHECURRENCYMARKET
would not permit the British government to maintain this policy for long,
GeorgeSorossteppedintoaction.
Soros Bets Against Success of U.K. Involvement
in ERM
TheQuantumhedgefundmanageressentiallywantedtobetthatthepound
would depreciate because the United Kingdom would either devalue the
poundorleavetheERM.Thankstotheprogressiveremovalofcapitalcon-
trols during the EMS years, international investors at the time had more
freedomthanevertotakeadvantageofperceiveddisequilibriums,soSoros
establishedshortpositionsinpoundsandlongpositionsinmarksbybor-
rowing pounds and investing in mark-denominated assets. He also made
greatuseofoptionsandfutures.Inall,hispositionsaccountedforagargan-
tuan$10billion.Soroswasnottheonlyone;manyotherinvestorssoonfol-
lowed suit. Everyone was selling pounds, placing tremendous downward
pressureonthecurrency.
Atfirst,theBankofEnglandtriedtodefendthepeggedratesbybuying
15 billion pounds with its large reserve assets, but its sterilized interven-
tions(wherebythemonetarybaseisheldconstantthankstoopenmarket
interventions) were limited in their effectiveness. The pound was trading
dangerously close to the lower levels of its fixed band. On September 16,
1992, a day that would later be known as Black Wednesday, the bank an-
nounced a2percent riseininterestrates(from10percentto12percent)
inanattempttoboostthepound’sappeal.Afewhourslater,itpromisedto
raise rates again, to 15 percent, but international investors such as Soros
could not be swayed, knowing that huge profits were right around the
corner. Traders kept selling pounds in huge volumes, and the Bank of
England kept buying them until, finally, at 7:00 p.m. that same day, Chan-
cellor Norman Lamont announced Britain would leave the ERM and that
rates would return to their initial level of 10 percent. The chaotic Black
Wednesday marked the beginning of a steep depreciation in the pound’s
effectivevalue.
WhetherthereturntoafloatingcurrencywasduetotheSoros-ledat-
tack on the pound or because of simple fundamental analysis is still de-
batedtoday.Whatiscertain,however,isthatthepound’sdepreciationof
almost 15 percent against the deutsche mark and 25 percent against the
dollar over the next five weeks (as seen in Figure 2.2 and Figure 2.3) re-
sultedintremendousprofitsforSorosandothertraders.Withinamonth,
theQuantumFundcashedinonapproximately$2billionbysellingthenow
moreexpensivedeutschemarksandbuyingbackthenowcheaperpounds.
“ThemanwhobroketheBankofEngland”showedhowcentralbankscan
stillbevulnerabletospeculativeattacks.

P1:JYS
c02 JWBK299-Lein October3,2008 18:17 Printer:Yettocome
HistoricalEventsintheFXMarket 29
FIGURE 2.2 GBP/DEMAfterSoros
FIGURE 2.3 GBP/USDAfterSoros

P1:JYS
c02 JWBK299-Lein October3,2008 18:17 Printer:Yettocome
30 DAYTRADINGANDSWINGTRADINGTHECURRENCYMARKET
ASIAN FINANCIAL CRISIS (1997–1998)
Falling like a set of dominos on July 2, 1997, the relatively nascent Asian
tigereconomiescreatedaperfectexampleinshowingtheinterdependence
of global capital markets and their subsequent effects throughout inter-
nationalcurrencyforums.Basedonseveralfundamentalbreakdowns,the
causeofthecontagionstemmedlargelyfromshroudedlendingpractices,
inflatedtradedeficits, andimmaturecapitalmarkets.Addedtogether, the
factors contributed to a “perfect storm” that left major regional markets
incapacitated and once-prized currencies devalued to significantly lower
levels. With adverse effects easily seen in the equities markets, currency
market fluctuations were negatively impacted in much the same manner
duringthistimeperiod.
The Bubble
Leading up to 1997, investors had become increasingly attracted to Asian
investment prospects, focusing on real estate development and domestic
equities. As a result, foreign investment capital flowed into the region as
economicgrowthratesclimbedonimprovedproductionincountrieslike
Malaysia, the Philippines, Indonesia, and South Korea. Thailand, home of
the baht, experienced a 13 percent growth rate in 1988 (falling to 6.5 per-
cent in 1996). Additional lending support for a stronger economy came
from the enactment of a fixed currency peg to the more formidable U.S.
dollar. With a fixed valuation to the greenback, countries like Thailand
could ensure financial stability in their own markets and a constant rate
forexporttradingpurposeswiththeworld’slargesteconomy.Ultimately,
the region’s national currencies appreciated as underlying fundamentals
werejustified,andspeculativepositionsinexpectationoffurtherclimbsin
pricemounted.
Ballooning Current Account Deficits and
Nonperforming Loans
However, in early 1997, a shift in sentiment had begun to occur as inter-
national account deficits became increasingly difficult for respective gov-
ernments to handle and lending practices were revealed to be detrimen-
tal to the economic infrastructure. In particular, economists were alerted
to the fact that Thailand’s current account deficit had ballooned in 1996
to$14.7billion(ithadbeenclimbingsince1992).Althoughcomparatively
smaller than the U.S. deficit, the gap represented 8 percent of the coun-
try’sgrossdomesticproduct.Shroudedlendingpracticesalsocontributed

P1:JYS
c02 JWBK299-Lein October3,2008 18:17 Printer:Yettocome
HistoricalEventsintheFXMarket 31
heavilytothesebreakdowns,asclosepersonalrelationshipsofborrowers
with high-ranking banking officials were well rewarded and surprisingly
common throughout the region. This aspect affected many of South Ko-
rea’s highly leveraged conglomerates as total nonperforming loan values
sky-rocketedto7.5percentofgrossdomesticproduct.
Additional evidence of these practices could be observed in financial
institutionsthroughoutJapan.Afterannouncinga$136billiontotalinques-
tionable and nonperforming loans in 1994, Japanese authorities admitted
toanalarming$400billiontotalayearlater.Coupledwithathencrippled
stock market, cooling real estate values, and dramatic slowdowns in the
economy, investors saw opportunity in a depreciating yen, subsequently
adding selling pressure to neighbor currencies. When Japan’s asset bub-
ble collapsed, asset prices fell by $10 trillion, with the fall in real estate
prices accounting for nearly 65 percent of the total decline, which was
worth two years of national output. This fall in asset prices sparked the
bankingcrisisinJapan.Itbeganintheearly1990sandthendevelopedinto
a full-blown systemic crisis in 1997 following the failure of a number of
high-profilefinancialinstitutions.Inresponse,Japanesemonetaryauthori-
tieswarnedofpotentiallyincreasingbenchmarkinterestratesinhopesof
defending the domestic currency valuation. Unfortunately, these consid-
erations never materialized and a shortfall ensued. Sparked mainly by an
announcementofamanagedfloatoftheThaibaht,theslidesnowballedas
centralbankreservesevaporatedandcurrencypricelevelsbecameunsus-
tainableinlightofdownsidesellingpressure.
Currency Crisis
Following mass short speculation and attempted intervention, the afore-
mentioned Asian economies were left ruined and momentarily incapaci-
tated. The Thailand baht, once a prized possession, was devalued by as
muchas48percent,evenslumpingclosertoa100percentfallattheturn
oftheNewYear.ThemostadverselyaffectedwastheIndonesianrupiah.
Relativelystablepriortotheonsetofa“crawlingpeg”withtheThaibaht,
therupiahfellawhopping228percentfromitsprevioushighof12,950to
thefixedU.S.dollar.Theseparticularlyvolatilepriceactionsarereflected
in Figure 2.4. Among the majors, the Japanese yen fell approximately
23percentfromitshightoitslowagainsttheU.S.dollarin1997and1998,
asshowninFigure2.5.
The financial crisis of 1997–1998 revealed the interconnectivity of
economies and their effects on the global currency markets. Addition-
ally, it showed the inability of central banks to successfully intervene in
currency valuations when confronted with overwhelming market forces
alongwiththeabsenceofsecureeconomicfundamentals.Today,withthe

P1:JYS
c02 JWBK299-Lein October3,2008 18:17 Printer:Yettocome
32 DAYTRADINGANDSWINGTRADINGTHECURRENCYMARKET
FIGURE 2.4 AsianCrisisPriceAction
FIGURE 2.5 USD/JPYAsianCrisisPriceAction
assistanceofIMFreparationpackagesandtheimplementationofstricter
requirements,Asia’sfourlittledragonsarechurningawayonceagain.With
inflationarybenchmarksandarevivedexportingmarket,SoutheastAsiais
buildingbackitsonceprominentstatureamongtheworld’sindustrialized
economic regions. With the experience of evaporating currency reserves

P1:JYS
c02 JWBK299-Lein October3,2008 18:17 Printer:Yettocome
HistoricalEventsintheFXMarket 33
undertheirbelts,theAsiantigersnowtakeactiveinitiativestoensurethat
they have a large pot of reserves on hand in case speculators attempt to
attacktheircurrenciesonceagain.
INTRODUCTION OF THE EURO (1999)
Theintroductionoftheeurowasamonumentalachievement,markingthe
largestmonetarychangeoverever.Theeurowasofficiallylaunchedasan
electronictradingcurrencyonJanuary1,1999.The11initialmemberstates
of the European Monetary Union (EMU) were: Belgium, Germany, Spain,
France,Ireland,Italy,Luxembourg,theNetherlands,Austria,Portugal,and
Finland. Greece joined two years later. Each country fixed its currency
to a specific conversion rate against the euro, and a common monetary
policy governed by the European Central Bank (ECB) was adopted. To
many economists, the system would ideally include all of the original 15
EuropeanUnion(EU)nations,buttheUnitedKingdom,Sweden,andDen-
markdecidedtokeeptheirowncurrenciesforthetimebeing.Euronotes
and coins did not begin circulation until the first two months of 2002. In
decidingwhethertoadopttheeuro,EUmembersallhadtoweighthepros
andconsofsuchanimportantdecision.
While ease of traveling is perhaps the most salient issue to EMU citi-
zens,theeuroalsobringsaboutnumerousotherbenefits:
(cid:1)
Iteliminatesexchangeratefluctuations,therebyprovidingamoresta-
bleenvironmenttotradewithintheeuroarea.
(cid:1)
Thepurgingofallexchangerateriskwithinthezoneallowsbusinesses
toplaninvestmentdecisionswithgreatercertainty.
(cid:1)
Transactioncostsdiminish(mainlythoserelatingtoforeignexchange
operations, hedging operations, cross-border payments, and the man-
agementofseveralcurrencyaccounts).
(cid:1)
Prices become more transparent as consumers and businesses can
compare prices across countries more easily. This, in turn, increases
competition.
(cid:1)
Thehugesinglecurrencymarketbecomesmoreattractiveforforeign
investors.
(cid:1)
Theeconomy’smagnitudeandstabilityallowtheECBtocontrolinfla-
tionwithlowerinterestratesthankstoincreasedcredibility.
Yet the euro is not without its limitations. Leaving aside political
sovereigntyissues,themainproblemisthat,byadoptingtheeuro,anation
essentiallyforfeitsanyindependentmonetarypolicy.Sinceeachcountry’s
economyisnotperfectlycorrelatedtotheEMU’seconomy,anationmight

P1:JYS
c02 JWBK299-Lein October3,2008 18:17 Printer:Yettocome
34 DAYTRADINGANDSWINGTRADINGTHECURRENCYMARKET
findtheECBhikinginterestratesduringadomesticrecession.Thisisespe-
ciallytrueformanyofthesmallernations.Asaresult,countriestrytorely
more heavily on fiscal policy, but the efficiency of fiscal policy is limited
whenitisnoteffectivelycombinedwithmonetarypolicy.Thisinefficiency
isonlyfurtherexacerbatedbythe3percentofGDPlimitonbudgetdeficits,
asstipulatedbytheStabilityandGrowthPact.
Some concerns also exist regarding the ECB’s effectiveness as a cen-
tral bank. While its target inflation is slightly below 2 percent, the euro
area’s inflation edged above the benchmark from 2000 to 2002, and has
oflatecontinuedtosurpasstheself-imposedobjective.From1999tolate
2002,alackofconfidenceintheunion’scurrency(andintheunionitself)
ledtoa24percentdepreciation,fromapproximately$1.15tothedollarin
January1999to$0.88inMay2000,forcingtheECBtointerveneinforeign
exchange markets in the last few months of 2000. Since then, however,
thingshavegreatlychanged;theeuronowtradesatapremiumtothedol-
lar,andmanyanalystsclaimthattheeurowillsomedayreplacethedollar
astheworld’sdominantinternationalcurrency.(Figure2.6showsachart
oftheeurosinceitwaslaunchedin1999.)
FIGURE 2.6 EUR/USDSinceInception

P1:JYS
c02 JWBK299-Lein October3,2008 18:17 Printer:Yettocome
HistoricalEventsintheFXMarket 35
There are 10 more members slated to adopt the euro over the next
few years. The enlargement, which will grow the EMU’s population by
one-fifth, is both a political and an economic landmark event: Of the new
entrants, all but two are former Soviet republics, joining the EU after 15
yearsofrestructuring.Onceassimilated,thesecountrieswillbecomepart
of the world’s largest free trade zone, a bloc of 450 million people. Con-
sequently,thethreelargestaccessioncountries,Poland,Hungary,andthe
Czech Republic—which comprise 79 percent of new member combined
GDP—arenotlikelytoadopttheeuroanytimesoon.Whileeuromembers
aremandatedtocapfiscaldeficitsat3percentofGDP,eachofthesethree
countriescurrentlyrunsaprojecteddeficitatornear6percent.Inaprob-
ablescenario,euroentryforPoland,Hungary,andtheCzechRepublicare
likely to be delayed until 2009 at the earliest. Even smaller states whose
economiesatpresentmeetEUrequirementsfacealongprocessinreplac-
ingtheirnationalcurrencies.Statesthatalreadymaintainafixedeuroex-
changerate—EstoniaandLithuania—couldparticipateintheERMearlier,
but even on this relatively fast track, they would not be able to adopt the
eurountil2007.
The 1993 the Maastricht Treaty set five main convergence criteria for
memberstatestojointheEMU.
MaastrichtTreaty:ConvergenceCriteria
1. The country’s government budget deficit could not be greater than
3percentofGDP.
2. The country’s government debt could not be larger than 60 percent
ofGDP.
3. Thecountry’sexchangeratehadtobemaintainedwithinERMbands
withoutanyrealignmentfortwoyearspriortojoining.
4. Thecountry’sinflationratecouldnotbehigherthan1.5percentabove
the average inflation rate of the three EU countries with the lowest
inflationrates.
5. Thecountry’slong-term interestrateongovernment bonds couldnot
behigherthan2percentabovetheaverageofthecomparableratesin
thethreecountrieswiththelowestinflation.

P1:JYS
c02 JWBK299-Lein October3,2008 18:17 Printer:Yettocome
36

P1:JYS
c03 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 13:10 Printer:Yettocome
C H A P T E R 3
What Moves the
Currency Market
in the
Long Term?
T
here are two major ways to analyze financial markets: fundamental
analysisandtechnicalanalysis.Fundamentalanalysisisbasedonun-
derlyingeconomicconditions,whiletechnicalanalysisuseshistorical
prices in an effort to predict future movements. Ever since technical
analysis first surfaced, there has been an ongoing debate as to which
methodologyismoresuccessful.Short-termtradersprefertousetechnical
analysis,focusingtheirstrategiesprimarilyonpriceaction,whilemedium-
term traders tend to use fundamental analysis to determine a currency’s
propervaluation,aswellasitsprobablefuturevaluation.
Before implementing successful trading strategies, it is important to
understand what drives the movements of currencies in the foreign ex-
changemarket.Thebeststrategiestendtobetheonesthatcombineboth
fundamentalandtechnicalanalysis.Toooftenperfecttechnicalformations
have failed because of major fundamental events. The same occurs with
fundamentals;theremaybesharpgyrationsinpriceactiononedayonthe
back of no economic news released, which suggests that the price action
is random or based on nothing more than pattern formations. Therefore,
itisveryimportantfortechnicaltraderstobeawareofthekeyeconomic
data or events that are scheduled for release and, in turn, for fundamen-
taltraderstobeawareofimportanttechnicallevelsonwhichthegeneral
marketmaybefocusing.
37

P1:JYS
c03 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 13:10 Printer:Yettocome
38 DAYTRADINGANDSWINGTRADINGTHECURRENCYMARKET
FUNDAMENTAL ANALYSIS
Fundamentalanalysisfocusesontheeconomic,social,andpoliticalforces
thatdrivesupplyanddemand.Thoseusingfundamentalanalysisasatrad-
ing tool look at various macroeconomic indicators such as growth rates,
interestrates,inflation,andunemployment.Welistthemostimportanteco-
nomicreleasesinChapter12aswellasthemostmarket-movingpiecesof
data for the U.S. dollar in Chapter 4. Fundamental analysts will combine
all of this information to assess current and future performance. This re-
quiresagreatdealofworkandthoroughanalysis,asthereisnosingleset
ofbeliefsthatguidesfundamentalanalysis.Tradersemployingfundamen-
talanalysisneedtocontinuallykeepabreastofnewsandannouncements
that can indicate potential changes to the economic, social, and political
environment. All traders should have some awareness of the broad eco-
nomicconditionsbeforeplacingtrades.Thisisespeciallyimportantforday
traderswhoaretryingtomaketradingdecisionsbasedonnewseventsbe-
causeeventhoughFederalReservemonetarypolicydecisionsarealways
important, if the rate move is already completely priced into the market,
thentheactualreactionintheEUR/USD,say,couldbenominal.
Taking a step back, currency prices move primarily based on supply
anddemand.Thatis,onthemostfundamentallevel,acurrencyralliesbe-
cause there is demand for that currency. Regardless of whether the de-
mandisforhedging,speculative,orconversionpurposes,truemovements
are based on the need for the currency. Currency values decrease when
thereisexcesssupply.Supplyanddemandshouldbetherealdeterminants
forpredictingfuturemovements.However,howtopredictsupplyandde-
mand is not as simple as many would think. There are many factors that
contribute to the net supply and demand for a currency, such as capital
flows,tradeflows,speculativeneeds,andhedgingneeds.
For example, the U.S. dollar was very strong (against the euro) from
1999 to the end of 2001, a situation primarily driven by the U.S. Internet
andequitymarketboomandthedesireforforeigninvestorstoparticipate
intheseelevatedreturns.ThisdemandforU.S.assetsrequiredforeignin-
vestors to sell their local currencies and purchase U.S. dollars. Since the
endof2001,whengeopoliticaluncertaintyrose,theUnitedStatesstarted
cutting interest rates and foreign investors began to sell U.S. assets in
search of higher yields elsewhere. This required foreign investors to sell
U.S.dollars,increasingsupplyandloweringthedollar’svalueagainstother
major currencies. The availability of funding or interest in buying a cur-
rencyisamajorfactorthatcanimpactthedirectionthatacurrencytrades.
It has been a primary determinant for the U.S. dollar between 2002 and
2005.ForeignofficialpurchasesofU.S.assets(alsoknownastheTreasury

P1:JYS
c03 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 13:10 Printer:Yettocome
WhatMovestheCurrencyMarketintheLongTerm? 39
internationalcapitalfloworTICdata)havebecomeoneofthemostimpor-
tanteconomicindicatorsanticipatedbythemarkets.
Capital and Trade Flows
Capital flows and trade flows constitute a country’s balance of payments,
whichquantifiestheamountofdemandforacurrencyoveragivenperiod
oftime.Theoretically,abalanceofpaymentsequaltozeroisrequiredfora
currencytomaintainitscurrentvaluation.Anegativebalanceofpayments
numberindicatesthatcapitalisleavingtheeconomyatamorerapidrate
thanitisentering,andhencetheoreticallythecurrencyshouldfallinvalue.
This is particularly important in current conditions (at the time of
thisbook’spublication)wheretheUnitedStatesisrunningaconsistently
largetradedeficitwithoutsufficientforeigninflowtofundthatdeficit.The
Japanese yen is another good example. As one of the world’s largest ex-
porters, Japan runs a very high trade surplus. Therefore, despite a zero
interestratepolicythatpreventscapitalflowsfromincreasing,theyenhas
anaturaltendencytotradehigherbasedontradeflows,whichistheother
sideoftheequation.Tobemorespecific,hereisadetailedexplanationof
whatcapitalandtradeflowsencompass.
Capital Flows: Measuring Currency Bought
and Sold
Capitalflowsmeasurethenetamountofacurrencythatisbeingpurchased
orsoldduetocapitalinvestments.Apositivecapitalflowbalanceimplies
that foreign inflows of physical or portfolio investments into a country
exceed outflows. A negative capital flow balance indicates that there are
morephysicalorportfolioinvestmentsboughtbydomesticinvestorsthan
foreign investors. Let’s look at these two types of capital flows—physical
flowsandportfolioflows.
Physical Flows Physicalflowsencompassactualforeigndirectinvest-
ments by corporations such as investments in real estate, manufacturing,
and local acquisitions. All of these require that a foreign corporation sell
thelocalcurrencyandbuytheforeigncurrency,whichleadstomovements
intheFXmarket.Thisisparticularlyimportantforglobalcorporateacqui-
sitionsthatinvolvemorecashthanstock.
Physical flows are important to watch, as they represent the under-
lying changes in actual physical investment activity. These flows shift in
responsetochangesineachcountry’sfinancialhealthandgrowthopportu-
nities.Changesinlocallawsthatencourageforeigninvestmentalsoserve
topromotephysicalflows.Forexample,duetoChina’sentryintotheWorld

P1:JYS
c03 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 13:10 Printer:Yettocome
40 DAYTRADINGANDSWINGTRADINGTHECURRENCYMARKET
TradeOrganization(WTO),itsforeigninvestmentlawshavebeenrelaxed.
As a result of its cheap labor and attractive revenue opportunities (popu-
lationofover1billion),corporationsgloballyhavefloodedChinawithin-
vestments.FromanFXperspective,inordertofundinvestmentsinChina,
foreigncorporationsneedtoselltheirlocalcurrencyandbuyChineseren-
minbi(RMB).
Portfolio Flows Portfolioflowsinvolvemeasuringcapitalinflowsand
outflowsinequitymarketsandfixedincomemarkets.
Equity Markets As technology has enabled greater ease with respect
totransportationofcapital,investinginglobalequitymarketshasbecome
far more feasible. Accordingly, a rallying stock market in any part of the
worldservesasanidealopportunityforall,regardlessofgeographicloca-
tion.Theresultofthishasbecomeastrongcorrelationbetweenacountry’s
equity markets and its currency: if the equity market is rising, investment
dollarsgenerallycomeintoseizetheopportunity.Alternatively,fallingeq-
uitymarketscouldpromptdomesticinvestorstoselltheirsharesoflocal
publiclytradedfirmstocaptureinvestmentopportunitiesabroad.
The attraction of equity markets compared to fixed income markets
has increased across the years. Since the early 1990s, the ratio of foreign
transactionsinU.S.governmentbondsoverU.S.equitieshasdeclinedfrom
10to1to2to1.AsindicatedinFigure3.1,itisevidentthattheDowJones
Industrial Average had a high correlation (of approximately 81 percent)
Dow Jones Industrial Average and USD/EUR
12500 1.15
11500 1.10
1.05
10500
1.00
9500
0.95
8500
0.90
7500
0.85
6500
0.80
5500
0.75
4500 0.70
INDU Index Px Last USD/EUR Currency
3500 0.65
1/31/94 6/30/9411/30/94 4/28/959/29/95 2/29/967/31/9612/31/96 5/30/97 10/31/973/31/98 8/31/98 1/29/99 6/30/99 11/30/99
FIGURE 3.1 DowJonesIndustrialAverageandUSD/EUR

P1:JYS
c03 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 13:10 Printer:Yettocome
WhatMovestheCurrencyMarketintheLongTerm? 41
with the U.S. dollar (against the deutsche mark) between 1994 and 1999.
In addition, from 1991 to 1999 the Dow increased 300 percent, while
the U.S. dollar index appreciated nearly 30 percent for the same time
period. As a result, currency traders closely followed the global equity
markets in an effort to predict short-term and intermediate-term equity-
based capital flows. However, this relationship has shifted since the tech
bubbleburstintheUnitedStates,asforeigninvestorsremainedrelatively
risk-averse, causing a lower correlation between the performance of the
U.S. equity market and the U.S. dollar. Nevertheless, a relationship does
still exist, making it important for all traders to keep an eye on global
marketperformancesinsearchofintermarketopportunities.
Fixed Income Markets Just as the equity market is correlated to ex-
changeratemovement,sotooisthefixedincomemarket.Intimesofglobal
uncertainty,fixedincomeinvestmentscanbecomeparticularlyappealing,
due to the inherent safety they possess. As a result, economies boasting
themostvaluablefixedincomeopportunitieswillbecapableofattracting
foreigninvestment—whichwillnaturallyfirstrequirethepurchasingofthe
country’srespectivecurrency.
A good gauge of fixed income capital flows are the short- and long-
termyields ofinternational government bonds. Itisuseful tomonitor the
spread differentials between the yield on the 10-year U.S. Treasury note
andtheyieldsonforeignbonds.Thereasonisthatinternationalinvestors
tend to place their funds in countries with the highest-yielding assets. If
U.S. assets have one of the highest yields, this would encourage more in-
vestments in U.S. financial instruments, hence benefiting the U.S. dollar.
Investors can also use short-term yields such as the spreads on two-year
government notes to gauge short-term flow of international funds. Aside
fromgovernmentbondyields,federalfundsfuturescanalsobeusedtoes-
timate movement of U.S. funds, as they price in the expectation of future
Fedinterestratepolicy.Euriborfutures,orfuturesontheEuroInterbank
OfferedRate,areabarometerfortheeuroregion’sexpectedfutureinterest
rates and can give an indication of euro region future policy movements.
WecoverusingfixedincomeproductstotradeFXfurtherinChapter10.
Trade Flows: Measuring Exports versus Imports
Trade flows are the basis of all international transactions. Just as the in-
vestment environment of a given economy is a prime determinant of its
currency valuation, trade flows represent a country’s net trade balance.
Countries that are net exporters—meaning they export more to interna-
tionalclientsthantheyimportfrominternationalproducers—willexperi-
ence a net trade surplus. Countries that are net exporters are more likely

P1:JYS
c03 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 13:10 Printer:Yettocome
42 DAYTRADINGANDSWINGTRADINGTHECURRENCYMARKET
tohavetheircurrencyriseinvalue,sincefromtheperspectiveofinterna-
tional trade, their currency is being bought more than it is sold: interna-
tional clients interested in buying the exported product/service must first
buytheappropriatecurrency,thuscreatingdemandforthecurrencyofthe
exporter.
Countries that are net importers—meaning they make more interna-
tionalpurchasesthaninternationalsales—experiencewhatisknownasa
tradedeficit,whichinturnhasthepotentialtodrivethevalueofthecur-
rencydown.Inordertoengageininternationalpurchases,importersmust
selltheircurrencytopurchasethatoftheretailerofthegoodorservice;ac-
cordingly,onalargescalethiscouldhavetheeffectofdrivingthecurrency
down.Thisconceptisimportantbecauseitisaprimaryreasonwhymany
economistssaythatthedollarneedstocontinuetofalloverthenextfew
years to stop the United States from repeatedly hitting record high trade
deficits.
Toclarifythisfurther,suppose,forexample,thattheU.K.economyis
booming, and that its stock market is rallying as well. Meanwhile, in the
United States, a lackluster economy is creating a shortage of investment
opportunities.Insuchascenario,thenaturalresultwouldbeforU.S.resi-
dentstoselltheirdollarsandbuyBritishpoundstotakeadvantageofthe
rallyingU.K.economy.ThiswouldresultincapitaloutflowfromtheUnited
Statesandcapital inflow fortheUnited Kingdom. From anexchange rate
perspective,thiswouldinduceafallintheUSDcoupledwithariseinthe
GBPasdemandforUSDdeclinesanddemandforGBPincreases;inother
words,theGBP/USDwouldrise.
Fordayandswingtraders,atipforkeepingontopofthebroadereco-
nomicpictureistofigureouthoweconomicdataforaparticularcountry
stacksup.
Trading Tip: Charting Economic Surprises
Agoodtipfortradersistostackupeconomicdatasurprisesagainstprice
action to help explain and forecast the future movement in currencies.
Figure 3.2 presents a sample of what can be done. The bar graph shows
the percentages of surprise that economic indicators have compared to
consensusforecasts,whilethedarklinetracespriceactionfortheperiod
duringwhichthedatawasreleased;thewhitelineisasimplepriceregres-
sion line. This charting can be done for all of the major currency pairs,
providingavisualguidetounderstandingwhetherpriceactionhasbeenin
line with economic fundamentals and helping to forecast future price ac-
tion.Thisdataisprovidedonamonthlybasisonwww.dailyfx.com,listed
underChartingEconomicFundamentals.

P1:JYS
c03 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 13:10 Printer:Yettocome
WhatMovestheCurrencyMarketintheLongTerm? 43
FIGURE 3.2 ChartingEconomicSurprises
AccordingtothechartinFigure3.2,inNovember2004,therewere12
outof15positiveeconomicsurprisesandyetthedollarsoldoffagainstthe
euro during the month of December, which was the month during which
theeconomicdatawasreleased.Althoughthismethodologyisinexact,the
analysisissimpleandpastchartshaveyieldedsomeextremelyusefulclues
tofuturepriceaction.Figure3.3showshowtheEUR/USDmovedinthefol-
lowingmonth.Asyoucansee,theEUR/USDquicklycorrecteditselfduring
themonthofJanuary,indicatingthatthefundamentaldivergenceofprice
actionthatoccurredinDecemberprovedtobequiteusefultodollarlongs,
whoharvestedalmost600pipsastheeuroquicklyretractedalargepartof
its gains in January. This method of analysis, called “variant perception,”
was invented by the legendary hedge fund manager Michael Steinhardt,
whoproduced24percentaverageratesofreturnfor30consecutiveyears.
While these charts rarely offer such clear-cut signals, their analytical
value may also lie in spotting and interpreting the outlier data. Very large
positiveandnegativesurprisesofparticulareconomicstatisticscanoften
yieldcluestofuturepriceaction.IfyougobackandlookattheEUR/USD
charts, you will see that the dollar plunged between October and Decem-
ber. This was triggered by a widening of the current account deficit to a

P1:JYS
c03 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 13:10 Printer:Yettocome
44 DAYTRADINGANDSWINGTRADINGTHECURRENCYMARKET
FIGURE 3.3 EUR/USDChart
(Source:www.eSignal.com)
recordhighinOctober2004.Economicfundamentalsmatterperhapsmore
intheforeignexchangemarketthaninanyothermarket,andchartssuch
as these could provide valuable clues to price direction. Generally, the
15 most important economic indicators are chosen for each region and
then a price regression line is superimposed over the past 20 days of
pricedata.
TECHNICAL ANALYSIS
Priortothemid-1980s,theFXmarketwasprimarilydominatedbyfunda-
mental traders. However, with the rising popularity of technical analysis
and the advent of new technologies, the influence of technical trading on
the FX market has increased significantly. The availability of high lever-
agehasledtoanincreased numberofmomentumormodelfunds,which
have become important participants in the FX market with the ability to
influencecurrencyprices.
Technical analysis focuses on the study of price movements. Techni-
calanalystsusehistoricalcurrencydatatoforecastthedirectionoffuture
prices.Thepremiseoftechnicalanalysisisthatallcurrentmarketinforma-
tion is already reflected in the price of each currency; therefore, studying

P1:JYS
c03 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 13:10 Printer:Yettocome
WhatMovestheCurrencyMarketintheLongTerm? 45
price action is all that is required to make informed trading decisions. In
addition,technicalanalysisworksundertheassumptionthathistorytends
torepeatitself.
Technicalanalysisisaverypopulartoolforshort-termtomedium-term
traders. It works especially well in the currency markets because short-
term currency price fluctuations are primarily driven by human emotions
or market perceptions. The primary tool in technical analysis is charts.
Charts are used to identify trends and patterns in order to find profit op-
portunities. The most basic concept of technical analysis is that markets
have a tendency to trend. Being able to identify trends in their earliest
stage of development is the key to technical analysis. Technical analysis
integratespriceactionandmomentumtoconstructapictorialrepresenta-
tion of past currency price action to predict future performance. Techni-
cal analysis tools such as Fibonacci retracement levels, moving averages,
oscillators, candlestick charts, and Bollinger bands provide further infor-
mationonthevalueofemotionalextremesofbuyersandsellerstodirect
traderstolevelswheregreedandfeararethestrongest.Therearebasically
two types of markets, trending and range-bound; in the trade parameters
section (Chapter 8), we attempt to identify rules that would help traders
determinewhattypeofmarkettheyarecurrentlytradinginandwhatsort
oftradingopportunitiestheyshouldbelookingfor.
Is Technical Analysis or Fundamental
Analysis Better?
Technicalversusfundamentalanalysisisalongtimebattle,andaftermany
yearsthereisstillnowinnerorloser.Mosttradersabidebytechnicalanal-
ysisbecauseitdoesnotrequireasmanyhoursofstudy.Technicalanalysts
canfollowmanycurrenciesatonetime.Fundamentalanalysts,incontrast,
tendtospecializeduetotheoverwhelmingamountofdatainthemarket.
Technical analysis works well because the currency market tends to de-
velopstrongtrends.Oncetechnicalanalysisismastered,itcanbeapplied
withequaleasetoanytimeframeorcurrencytraded.
However,itisimportanttotakeintoconsiderationbothstrategies,as
fundamentalscantriggertechnicalmovementssuchasbreakoutsortrend
reversals, while technical analysis can explain moves that fundamentals
cannot, especially in quiet markets, such as resistance in trends. For ex-
ample, as you can see in Figure 3.4, in the days leading up to September
11,2001,USD/JPYhadjustbrokenoutofatriangleformationandlooked
poisedtoheadhigher.However,asthechartindicates,insteadofbreaking
higherastechniciansmayhaveexpected,USD/JPYbrokedownfollowing
the terrorist attacks and ended up hitting a low of 115.81 from a high of
121.88onSeptember10.

P1:JYS
c03 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 13:10 Printer:Yettocome
46 DAYTRADINGANDSWINGTRADINGTHECURRENCYMARKET
FIGURE 3.4 USD/JPYSeptember11,2001,Chart
(Source:www.eSignal.com)
CURRENCY FORECASTING—WHAT
BOOKWORMS AND ECONOMISTS
LOOK AT
Formoreavidstudentsofforeignexchangewhowanttolearnmoreabout
fundamental analysis and valuing currencies, this section examines the
different models of currency forecasting employed by the analysts of the
majorinvestmentbanks.Therearesevenmajormodelsforforecastingcur-
rencies: the balance of payments (BOP) theory, purchasing power parity
(PPP),interestrateparity,themonetarymodel,therealinterestratediffer-
entialmodel,theassetmarketmodel,andthecurrencysubstitutionmodel.
Balance of Payments Theory
The balance of payments theory states that exchange rates should be at
their equilibrium level, which is the rate that produces a stable current
account balance. Countries with trade deficits experience a run on their
foreign exchange reserves due to the fact that exporters to that nation
mustsellthatnation’scurrencyinordertoreceivepayment.Thecheaper
currencymakesthenation’sexportslessexpensiveabroad,whichinturn
fuelsexportsandbringsthecurrencyintobalance.

P1:JYS
c03 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 13:10 Printer:Yettocome
WhatMovestheCurrencyMarketintheLongTerm? 47
What Is the Balance of Payments? The balance of payments ac-
count is divided into two parts: the current account and the capital ac-
count.Thecurrentaccountmeasurestradeintangible,visibleitemssuch
as cars and manufactured goods; the surplus or deficit between exports
andimportsiscalledthetradebalance.Thecapitalaccountmeasuresflows
of money, such as investments for stocks or bonds. Balance of payments
data can be found on the web site of the Bureau of Economic Analysis
(www.bea.gov).
Trade Flows The trade balance of a country shows the net difference
overaperiodoftimebetweenanation’sexportsandimports.Whenacoun-
try imports more than it exports the trade balance is negative or is in a
deficit. If the country exports more than it imports the trade balance is
positiveorisinasurplus.Thetradebalanceindicatestheredistributionof
wealthamongcountriesandisamajorchannelthroughwhichthemacroe-
conomicpoliciesofacountrymayaffectanothercountry.
In general, it is considered to be unfavorable for a country to have a
tradedeficit,inthatitnegativelyimpactsthevalueofthenation’scurrency.
Forexample,ifU.S.tradefiguresshowgreaterimportsthanexports,more
dollars flow out of the United States and the value of the U.S. currency
depreciates.Apositivetradebalance,incomparison,willaffectthedollar
bycausingittoappreciateagainsttheothercurrencies.
Capital Flows In addition to trade flows, there are also capital flows
thatoccuramongcountries.Theyrecordanation’sincomingandoutgoing
investmentflowssuchaspaymentsforentire(orforpartsof)companies,
stocks,bonds,bankaccounts,realestate,andfactories.Thecapitalflows
are influenced by many factors, including the financial and economic cli-
mate of other countries. Capital flows can be in the form of physical or
portfolioinvestments.Ingeneral,indevelopingcountries,thecomposition
ofcapitalflowstendstobeskewedtowardforeigndirectinvestment(FDI)
andbankloans.Fordevelopedcountries,duetothestrengthoftheequity
andfixedincomemarkets,stocksandbondsappeartobemoreimportant
thanbankloansandFDI.
Equity Markets Equitymarketshaveasignificantimpactonexchange
rate movements because they are a major place for high-volume cur-
rency movements. Their importance is considerable for the currencies
of countries with developed capital markets where great amounts of
capitalinflowsandoutflowsoccur,andwhereforeigninvestorsaremajor
participants. The amount of the foreign investment flows in the equity
marketsisdependentonthegeneralhealthandgrowthofthemarket,re-
flectingthewell-beingofcompaniesandparticularsectors.Movementsof

P1:JYS
c03 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 13:10 Printer:Yettocome
48 DAYTRADINGANDSWINGTRADINGTHECURRENCYMARKET
currenciesoccurwhenforeigninvestorsmovetheirmoneytoaparticular
equitymarket.Thustheyconverttheircapitalinadomesticcurrencyand
pushthedemandforithigher,makingthecurrencyappreciate.Whenthe
equity markets are experiencing recessions, however, foreign investors
tendtoflee,thusconvertingbacktotheirhomecurrencyandpushingthe
domesticcurrencydown.
Fixed Income (Bond) Markets The effect the fixed income markets
have on currencies is similar to that of the equity markets and is a result
of capital movements. The investor’s interest in the fixed income market
dependsonthecompany’sspecificsandcreditrating,aswellasonthegen-
eralhealthoftheeconomyandthecountry’sinterestrates.Themovement
of foreign capital into and out of fixed income markets leads to change
inthedemandandsupplyforcurrencies,henceimpactingthecurrencies’
exchangerates.
SummaryofTradeandCapitalFlows Determiningandunderstand-
ing a country’s balance of payments is perhaps the most important and
usefultoolforthoseinterestedinfundamentalanalysis.Anyinternational
transactiongivesrisetotwooffsettingentries,tradeflowbalance(current
account) and capital flow balance (capital account). If the trade flow bal-
anceisanegativeoutflow,thecountryisbuyingmorefromforeignersthan
itsells(importsexceedexports).Whenitisapositiveinflow,thecountry
issellingmorethanitbuys(exportsexceedimports).Thecapitalflowbal-
anceispositivewhenforeigninflowsofphysicalorportfolioinvestments
into a country exceed that country’s outflows. A capital flow is negative
whenacountrybuysmorephysicalorportfolioinvestmentsthanaresold
toforeigninvestors.
Thesetwoentries,tradeandcapitalflow,whenaddedtogethersignify
acountry’sbalanceofpayments.Intheory,thetwoentriesshouldbalance
and add up to zero in order to provide for the maintenance of the status
quoinanation’seconomyandcurrencyrates.
In general, countries might experience positive or negative trade, as
wellaspositiveornegativecapitalflowbalances.Inordertominimizethe
neteffectofthetwoontheexchangerates,acountryshouldtrytomaintain
a balance between the two. For example, in the United States there is a
substantial trade deficit, as more is imported than is exported. When the
tradebalanceisnegative,thecountryisbuyingmorefromforeignersthan
itsellsandthereforeitneedstofinanceitsdeficit.Thisnegativetradeflow
mightbeoffsetbyapositivecapitalflowintothecountry,asforeignersbuy
eitherphysicalorportfolioinvestments.Therefore,theUnitedStatesseeks
tominimizeitstradedeficitandmaximizeitscapitalinflowstotheextent
thatthetwobalanceout.

P1:JYS
c03 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 13:10 Printer:Yettocome
WhatMovestheCurrencyMarketintheLongTerm? 49
Achangeinthisbalanceisextremelysignificantandcarriesramifica-
tions that run deep into economic policy and currency exchange levels.
The net result of the difference between the trade and capital flows, pos-
itive or negative, will impact the direction in which the nation’s currency
willmove.Iftheoveralltradeandcapitalbalanceisnegativeitwillresult
inadepreciationofthenation’scurrency,andifpositiveitwillleadtoan
appreciationofthecurrency.
Clearlyachangeinthebalanceofpaymentscarriesadirecteffectfor
currency levels. It is therefore possible for any investor to observe eco-
nomicdatarelatingtothisbalanceandinterprettheresultsthatwilloccur.
Data relating to capital and trade flows should be followed most closely.
Forinstance,ifananalystobservesanincreaseintheU.S.tradedeficitand
adecreaseinthecapitalflows,abalanceofpaymentsdeficitwouldoccur
andasaresultaninvestormayanticipateadepreciationofthedollar.
Limitations of Balance of Payments Model The BOP model fo-
cuses on traded goods and services while ignoring international capital
flows.Indeed,internationalcapitalflowsoftendwarfedtradeflowsinthe
currencymarketstowardtheendofthe1990s,though,andthisoftenbal-
ancedthecurrentaccountsofdebtornationsliketheUnitedStates.
For example, in 1999, 2000, and 2001 the United States maintained a
largecurrentaccountdeficitwhiletheJapaneseranalargecurrentaccount
surplus.However,duringthissameperiodtheU.S.dollarroseagainstthe
yen even though trade flows were running against the dollar. The reason
was that capital flows balanced trade flows, thus defying the BOP’s fore-
castingmodelforaperiodoftime.Indeed,theincreaseincapitalflowshas
givenrisetotheassetmarketmodel.
Note: It is probably a misnomer to call this approach the balance of
paymentstheorysinceittakesintoaccountonlythecurrentaccountbal-
ance,nottheactualbalanceofpayments.However,untilthe1990scapital
flowsplayedaverysmallroleintheworldeconomysothetradebalance
madeupthebulkofthebalanceofpaymentsformostnations.
Purchasing Power Parity
Thepurchasingpowerparitytheoryisbasedonthebeliefthatforeignex-
changeratesshouldbedeterminedbytherelativepricesofasimilarbas-
ketofgoodsbetweentwocountries.Anychangeinanation’sinflationrate
should bebalanced byanopposite change inthatnation’sexchange rate.
Therefore,accordingtothistheory,whenacountry’spricesarerisingdue
toinflation,thatcountry’sexchangerateshoulddepreciateinordertore-
turntoparity.

P1:JYS
c03 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 13:10 Printer:Yettocome
50 DAYTRADINGANDSWINGTRADINGTHECURRENCYMARKET
PPP’s Basket of Goods The basket of goods and services priced
for the PPP exercise is a sample of all goods and services covered by
gross domestic product (GDP). It includes consumer goods and services,
government services, equipment goods, and construction projects. More
specifically, consumer items include food, beverages, tobacco, clothing,
footwear,rents,watersupply,gas,electricity,medicalgoodsandservices,
furnitureandfurnishings,householdappliances,personaltransportequip-
ment, fuel, transport services, recreational equipment, recreational and
cultural services, telephone services, education services, goods and ser-
vices for personal care and household operation, and repair and mainte-
nanceservices.
Big Mac Index One of the most famous examples of PPP is the
Economist’s Big Mac Index. The Big Mac PPP is the exchange rate that
would leave hamburgers costing the same in the United States as else-
where, comparing these with actual rates signals if a currency is under-
or overvalued. For example, in April 2002 the exchange rate between the
United States and Canada was 1.57. In the United States a Big Mac cost
$2.49. In Canada, a Big Mac cost $3.33 in local Canadian dollars (CAD),
whichworksouttoonly$2.12inU.S.dollars.Therefore,theexchangerate
forUSD/CADisovervaluedby15percentusingthistheoryandshouldbe
only1.34.
OECD Purchasing Power Parity Index Amoreformalindexisput
outbytheOrganizationforEconomicCooperationandDevelopment.Un-
der a joint OECD-Eurostat PPP program, the OECD and Eurostat share
the responsibility for calculating PPPs. This latest information on which
currencies are under- or overvalued against the U.S. dollar can be found
on the OECD’s web site at www.oecd.org. The OECD publishes a table
that shows the price levels for the major industrialized countries. Each
column states the number of specified monetary units needed in each of
the countries listed to buy the same representative basket of consumer
goodsandservices.Ineachcasetherepresentativebasketcosts100units
inthecountrywhosecurrencyisspecified. Thechartthatisthencreated
compares the PPP of a currency with its actual exchange rate. The chart
is updated weekly to reflect the current exchange rate. It is also updated
abouttwiceayeartoreflectnewestimatesofPPP.ThePPPestimatesare
takenfromstudiescarriedoutbytheOECD;however,theyshouldnotbe
takenasdefinitive.Differentmethodsofcalculationwillarriveatdifferent
PPPrates.
AccordingtotheOECDinformationforSeptember2002,theexchange
rate between the United States and Canada was 1.58 while the price
levelfortheUnitedStatesversusCanadawas122,whichtranslatestoan

P1:JYS
c03 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 13:10 Printer:Yettocome
WhatMovestheCurrencyMarketintheLongTerm? 51
exchange rate of 1.22. Using this PPP model, the USD/CAD is once again
greatlyovervalued(byover25percent,notthatfarawayfromtheBigMac
Indexafterall).
LimitationstoUsingPurchasingPowerParity PPPtheoryshould
be used only for long-term fundamental analysis. The economic forces
behind PPP will eventually equalize the purchasing power of currencies.
However, this can take many years. A time horizon of 5 to 10 years is
typical.
PPP’s major weakness is that it assumes goods can be traded easily,
without regard to such things as tariffs, quotas, or taxes. For example,
when the United States announces new tariffs on imports the cost of do-
mestic manufactured goods goes up; but those increases will not be re-
flectedintheU.S.PPPtables.
There are other factors that must also be considered when weighing
PPP: inflation, interest rate differentials, economic releases/reports, asset
markets, trade flows, and political developments. Indeed, PPP is just one
ofseveraltheoriestradersshouldusewhendeterminingexchangerates.
Interest Rate Parity
Theinterestrateparitytheorystatesthatiftwodifferentcurrencieshave
different interest rates then that difference will be reflected in the pre-
miumordiscountfortheforwardexchangerateinordertopreventriskless
arbitrage.
For example, if U.S. interest rates are 3 percent and Japanese inter-
est rates are 1 percent, then the U.S. dollar should depreciate against the
Japaneseyenby2percentinordertopreventrisklessarbitrage.Thisfuture
exchangerateisreflectedintotheforwardexchangeratestatedtoday.In
our example, the forward exchange rate of the dollar is said to be at dis-
countbecauseitbuysfewerJapaneseyenintheforwardratethanitdoes
inthespotrate.Theyenissaidtobeatapremium.
Interest rate parity has shown very little proof of working in recent
years.Oftencurrencieswithhigherinterestratesriseduetothedetermina-
tionofcentralbankerstryingtoslowdownaboomingeconomybyhiking
ratesandhavenothingtodowithrisklessarbitrage.
Monetary Model
The monetary model holds that exchange rates are determined by a na-
tion’s monetary policy. Countries that follow a stable monetary policy
overtimeusuallyhaveappreciatingcurrenciesaccordingtothemonetary
model.Countriesthathaveerraticmonetarypoliciesorexcessivelyexpan-
sionistpoliciesshouldseethevalueoftheircurrencydepreciate.

P1:JYS
c03 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 13:10 Printer:Yettocome
52 DAYTRADINGANDSWINGTRADINGTHECURRENCYMARKET
HowtoUsetheMonetaryModel Thereareseveralfactorsthatinflu-
enceexchangeratesunderthistheory:
1. Anation’smoneysupply.
2. Expectedfuturelevelsofanation’smoneysupply.
3. Thegrowthrateofanation’smoneysupply.
Allofthesefactorsarekeytounderstandingandspottingamonetary
trendthatmayforceachangeinexchangerates.Forexample,theJapanese
economy has been slipping in and out of recession for over a decade. In-
terestratesarenearzero,andannualbudgetdeficitspreventtheJapanese
from spending their way out of recession, which leaves only one tool left
at the disposal of Japanese officials determined to revive their economy:
printingmoremoney.Bybuyingstocksandbonds,theBankofJapanisin-
creasingthenation’smoneysupply,whichproducesinflation,whichforces
achangeintheexchangerate.TheexampleinFigure3.5illustratestheef-
fectofmoneysupplychangesusingthemonetarymodel.
Indeed,itisintheareaofexcessiveexpansionarymonetarypolicythat
themonetarymodelismostsuccessful.Oneofthefewwaysacountrycan
keep its currency from sharply devaluing is by pursuing a tight monetary
policy.Forexample,duringtheAsiancurrencycrisistheHongKongdollar
came under attack from speculators. Hong Kong officials raised interest
rates to 300 percent to halt the Hong Kong dollar from being dislodged
fromitspegtotheU.S.dollar.Thetacticworkedperfectlyasspeculators
were cleared out by such sky-high interest rates. The downside was the
dangerthattheHongKongeconomywouldslideintorecession.Butinthe
endthepegheldandthemonetarymodelworked.
LimitationsofMonetaryModel Veryfeweconomistssolelystandby
thismodelanymoresinceitdoesnottakeintoaccounttradeflowsandcap-
ital flows. For example, throughout 2002 the United Kingdom had higher
interestrates,growthrates,andinflationratesthanboththeUnitedStates
andtheEuropeanUnion,yetthepoundappreciatedinvalueagainstboth
FIGURE 3.5 MonetaryModel

P1:JYS
c03 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 13:10 Printer:Yettocome
WhatMovestheCurrencyMarketintheLongTerm? 53
thedollarandtheeuro.Indeed,themonetarymodelhasgreatlystruggled
sincethedawnoffreelyfloatingcurrencies.Themodelholdsthathighin-
terest rates signal growing inflation, which they often do, followed by a
depreciating currency. But this does not take into account the capital in-
flows that would take effect as a result of higher interest yields or of an
equity market that may be thriving in a booming economy—thus causing
thecurrencytopossiblyappreciate.
Inanycase,themonetarymodelisoneofseveralusefulfundamental
toolsthatcanbeemployedintandemwithothermodelstodeterminethe
directionanexchangerateisheading.
Real Interest Rate Differential Model
The real interest rate differential theory states that exchange rate move-
mentsaredeterminedbyanation’sinterestratelevel.Countriesthathave
high interest rates should see their currencies appreciate in value, while
countrieswithlowinterestratesshouldseetheircurrenciesdepreciatein
value.
Basics of the Model Once a nation raises its interest rates, interna-
tional investors will discover that the yield for that nation’s currency is
moreattractiveandhencebuyupthatnation’scurrency.Figure3.6shows
howwellthistheoryheldupin2003wheninterestratespreadswerenear
theirwidestlevelsinrecentyears.
The data from this graph shows a mixed result. The Australian dollar
had the largest basis point spread and alsohad the highest returnagainst
theU.S.dollar,whichseemstovindicatethemodelasinvestorsboughtup
higher-yieldingAussiecurrency.ThesamecanbesaidfortheNewZealand
dollar,whichalsohadahigheryieldthantheU.S.dollarandgained27per-
cent against USD. Yet the model becomes less convincing when compar-
ingtheeuro,whichgained20percentagainstthedollar(morethanevery
currency except NZD) even though its basis point differential was only
100 points. The model then comes under serious question when compar-
ing the British pound and the Japanese yen. The yen differential is –100
andyetitappreciatesalmost12percentagainstthedollar.Meanwhile,the
Britishpoundgainedonly11percentagainstthedollareventhoughithad
awhopping275-pointinterestratedifferential.
Thismodelalsostressesthatoneofthekeyfactorsindeterminingthe
severity of an exchange rate’s response to a shift in interest rates is the
expected persistence of that shift. Simply put, a rise in interest rates that
is expected to last for five years will have a much larger impact on the
exchangeratethanifthatrisewereexpectedtolastforonlyoneyear.

P1:JYS
c03 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 13:10 Printer:Yettocome
54 DAYTRADINGANDSWINGTRADINGTHECURRENCYMARKET
FIGURE 3.6 RealInterestRateModel
Limitations to Interest Rate Model There is a great deal of de-
bate among international economists over whether there is a strong and
statistically significant link between changes in a nation’s interest rate
and currency price. The main weakness of this model is that it does not
take into account a nation’s current account balance, relying on capital
flows instead. Indeed, the model tends to overemphasize capital flows
at the expense of numerous other factors: political stability, inflation,
economic growth, and so on. Absent these types of factors, the model
can be very useful since it is quite logical to conclude that an investor
will naturally gravitate toward the investment vehicle that pays a higher
reward.
Asset Market Model
Thebasicpremiseofthistheoryisthattheflowoffundsintootherfinancial
assets of a country such as equities and bonds increases the demand for
thatcountry’scurrency(andviceversa).Asproof,advocatespointoutthat
theamountoffundsthatareplacedininvestmentproductssuchasstocks
andbondsnowdwarftheamountoffundsthatareexchangedasaresultof
thetransactionsingoodsandservicesforimportandexportpurposes.The
asset market theory is basically the opposite of the balance of payments

P1:JYS
c03 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 13:10 Printer:Yettocome
WhatMovestheCurrencyMarketintheLongTerm? 55
theory since it takes intoaccount anation’s capital account instead of its
currentaccount.
A Dollar-Driven Theory Throughout 1999, many experts argued that
thedollarwouldfallagainsttheeuroonthegroundsoftheexpandingU.S.
currentaccountdeficitandanovervaluedWallStreet.Thatwasbasedon
therationalethatnon-U.S.investorswouldbeginwithdrawingtheirfunds
fromU.S.stocksandbondsintomoreeconomicallysoundmarkets,which
wouldweighsignificantlyonthedollar.Yetsuchfearshavelingeredsince
the early 1980s when the U.S. current account soared to a record high at
thetimeof3.5percentofGDP.
Throughout the past two decades, the balance of payments approach
in assessing the dollar’s behavior has given way to the asset market
approach. This theory continues to hold the most sway over pundits due
totheenormityofU.S.capitalmarkets.InMayandJuneof2002thedollar
plummeted more than a thousand points versus the yen at the same time
equity investors fled U.S. equity markets due to the accounting scandals
that were plaguing Wall Street. As the scandals subsided toward the end
of 2002 the dollar rose 500 basis points from a low of 115.43 to close at
120.00againsttheyeneventhoughthecurrentaccountbalanceremained
inmassivedeficittheentiretime.
Limitations to Asset Market Theory Themainlimitationoftheas-
setmarkettheoryisthatitisuntestedandfairlynew.Itisfrequentlyargued
that over the long run there is no relationship between a nation’s equity
market performance and the performance of its currency. See Figure 3.7
foracomparison.Between1998and2008,theS&P500indexandtheU.S.
DollarIndexhadacorrelationofonly25percent.
Also, what happens to a nation’s currency when the stock market is
tradingsideways,stuckbetweenbullishandbearishsentiments?Thatwas
the scenario in the United States for much of 2002, and currency traders
foundthemselvesgoingbacktooldermoneymakingmodels,suchasinter-
estratearbitrage,asaresult.Onlytimewilltellwhethertheassetmarket
modelwillholdupormerelybeashort-termbliponthecurrencyforecast-
ingradar.
Currency Substitution Model
Thiscurrencysubstitutionmodelisacontinuationofthemonetarymodel
sinceittakesintoaccountanation’sinvestorflows.Itpositsthattheshift-
ing of private and public portfolios from one nation to another can have
asignificanteffectonexchangerates.Theabilityofindividualstochange
their assets from domestic and foreign currencies is known as currency

P1:JYS
c03 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 13:10 Printer:Yettocome
56 DAYTRADINGANDSWINGTRADINGTHECURRENCYMARKET
FIGURE 3.7 DollarIndexandS&P500
substitution. When this model is added to the monetary model, evidence
showsthatshiftsinexpectationsofanation’smoneysupplycanhaveade-
cidedimpactonthatnation’sexchangerates.Investorsarelookingatmon-
etarymodeldataandcomingtotheconclusionthatachangeinmoneyflow
isabouttooccur,thuschangingtheexchangerate,sotheyareinvestingac-
cordingly, which turns the monetary model into a self-fulfilling prophecy.
Investorswhosubscribetothistheoryaremerelyjumpingonthecurrency
substitutionmodelbandwagononthewaytothemonetarymodelparty.
Yen Example In the monetary model example we showed that by
buying stocks and bonds in the marketplace the Japanese government
was basically printing yen (increasing the money supply). Monetary
modeltheoristswouldconcludethismonetarygrowthwouldinfactspark
inflation(moreyenchasingfewerproducts),decreasedemandfortheyen,
andfinallycausetheyentodepreciateacrosstheboard.Acurrencysubsti-
tutiontheoristwouldagreewiththisscenarioandlooktotakeadvantage
of this by shorting the yen or, if long the yen, by promptly getting out of
the position. By taking this action, our yen trader is helping to drive the
marketpreciselyinthatdirectionthusmakingthemonetarymodeltheory
afaitaccompli.Thestep-by-stepprocessisillustratedinFigure3.8.

P1:JYS
c03 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 13:10 Printer:Yettocome
WhatMovestheCurrencyMarketintheLongTerm? 57
FIGURE 3.8 CurrencySubstitutionModel
A. Japanannouncesanewstockandbondbuybackplan.Economistsare
nowpredictingJapan’smoneysupplywilldramaticallyincrease.
B. Economistsarealsopredictingariseininflationwiththeintroduction
of this new policy. Speculators expect a change in the exchange rate
asaresult.
C. Economistsexpectinterestratestorisealsoasinflationtakesholdin
the economy. Speculators start shorting the yen in anticipation of a
changeintheexchangerate.
D. Demand for the yen plummets as money flows easily through the
Japaneseeconomyandspeculatorsdumpyeninthemarkets.
E. The exchange rate for Japanese yen changes dramatically as the yen
fallsinvaluetoforeigncurrencies,especiallythosethatareeasilysub-
stitutedbyinvestors(read:liquidyencrosses).
Limitations of Currency Substitution Model Among the major,
activelytradedcurrenciesthismodelhasnotyetshownitselftobeacon-
vincing, single determinant for exchange rate movements. While this the-
orycanbeusedwithmoreconfidenceinunderdevelopedcountrieswhere
hot money rushes in and out of emerging markets with enormous effect,
therearestilltoomanyvariablesnotaccountedforbythecurrencysubsti-
tution model. For example, using the earlier yen illustration, even though
Japan may try to spark inflation with its securities buyback plan, it still
hasanenormouscurrentaccountsurplusthatwillcontinuallypropupthe
yen.Also,Japanhasnumerouspoliticallandminesitmustavoidinitsown
neighborhood,andshouldJapanmakeitclearitistryingtodevalueitscur-
rency there will be enormous repercussions. These are just two of many
factorsthesubstitutionmodeldoesnottakeintoconsideration.However,
this model (like numerous other currency models) should be considered
partofanoverallbalancedFXforecastingdiet.

P1:JYS
c03 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 13:10 Printer:Yettocome
58

P1:JYS
c04 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 13:15 Printer:Yettocome
C H A P T E R 4
What Moves the
Market in the
Short Term?
F
or fundamental or technical traders, the importance of economic
data cannot be underestimated. Even though there are many peo-
ple who claim to be pure technicians, through my years in the FX
market,Ihavetocometorealizethatnearlyeveryonewillfactoreconomic
dataintotheirtradingstrategies.Agoodtechnicianwhofocusesonrange
trades,forexample,maychoosetostayoutofthemarketsonthedaythat
averymarket-movingnumbersuchasnonfarmpayrolls(NFP)willbere-
leased.Atechnicalbreakouttrader,bycontrast,maywanttotradeonlyon
dayswhenthereisimportanteconomicdatatodrivesomesizablepriceac-
tion.Incorporatingfundamentalanalysisisparticularlyimportantforpeo-
plewhotradeautomatedsystems,becauseturningonorofftheirstrategies
basedonincomingeconomicdatacanpotentiallyhaveabigimpactonthe
overallperformanceofthetradingstrategy.Fundamentaltradersnaturally
tend to thrive on economic releases, and the economic data that tend to
have the biggest impact on currency rates are U.S. data. Close to 90 per-
cent of all currency transactions are done against the U.S. dollar, which
meansthatthegreenbackiseitherthebaseorcountercurrencyformost
transactions.
NOT ALL ECONOMIC RELEASES ARE
CREATED EQUAL
Someeconomicdatareleasescanhaveaverysignificantandlastingimpact
onacurrency,whileothersmaynotmatteratall.InthefirsteditionofDay
Trading the Currency Market(JohnWiley&Sons,2005),Ilookedathow
59

P1:JYS
c04 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 13:15 Printer:Yettocome
60 DAYTRADINGANDSWINGTRADINGTHECURRENCYMARKET
variouspiecesofU.S.economicdataimpactedthedollar(againsttheeuro)
in2004.IchosetheEUR/USDbecauseitisthemostliquidcurrencypairin
theworldandtendstohavethepurestreactiontoU.S.numbers.Forthis
second edition, entitled Day Trading and Swing Trading the Currency
Market, the study is updated using 2007 data. Not only have the rankings
changed,butsohavethemagnitudesofthereactions.
Forthepurposesofthisstudy,IlookedathowtheEUR/USDreactedto
variouseconomic releases 20minutes afterthenumber was released and
60 minutes or one hour after the number was released, and whether the
movelastedintotheendoftheU.S.tradingsession.Iconsider20minutes
the knee-jerk reaction time, and the pip change is based on the time at
which the economic number is released and the closing price 20 minutes
or60minuteslater.Thismethodologymayhelpexcludesomewildswings
withinthefirst20minutes,forexample.
AsindicatedinTable4.1,theU.S.nonfarmpayrollsreleaseremainsthe
number-one most market-moving indicator for the U.S. dollar; it topped
the list in both 2004 and 2007. The reason why NFP is so important is
because job growth has broad ramifications for any country. Strong job
growthtendstoleadtostrongerconsumerspendingandtightermonetary
policies.Weakjobgrowthcanleadtoweakerretailsales,aslowingecon-
omy,andlowerinterestrates.Throughout2007,onaverage,theEUR/USD
wouldmove69pips(pointsinFX)inthefirst20minutesfollowingtheNFP
release.Onadailybasis,theEUR/USDmovedanaverageof98pips.
The magnitude of the reaction to nonfarm payrolls, or to any U.S.
economic data for that matter, has fallen significantly between 2004 and
2007.Thishaspartiallybeenduetothedecliningvolatilityinthecurrency
market; in 2006, FX volatility actually hit a record low. The liquidity in
themarkethasalsoincreasedsignificantly,withvolumeintheFXmarket
TABLE4.1 MSRangeofEUR/USDFollowingEconomicReleases
TopIndicatorsof2007(20-Minute TopIndicatorsof2004(20-Minute
Reactions) Reactions)
1 NonfarmPayrolls 69pips 1 NonfarmPayrolls
2 InterestRates(FOMC) 57pips 2 InterestRates(FOMC)
3 Inflation(CPI) 39pips 3 TradeBalance
4 RetailSales 35pips 4 Inflation(CPI)
5 ProducerPriceIndex 35pips 5 RetailSales
6 NewHomeSales 34pips 6 ForeignPurchasesU.S.Treasuries(TIC)
7 ExistingHomeSales 34pips 7 ISMManufacturing
8 DurableGoodsOrders 33pips 8 ProducerPriceIndex
9 GDPRelease 32pips 9 GDPRelease

P1:JYS
c04 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 13:15 Printer:Yettocome
WhatMovestheMarketintheShortTerm? 61
close to doubling over the past three years. With greater liquidity, the
markettendstodoabetterjobofabsorbingtheeconomicrelease.
Ontheothersideofthespectrumisthegrossdomesticproduct(GDP)
report,whichresultedinanaveragemoveof32pipsin2007comparedto
43 pips in 2004. On a daily basis, the reaction to GDP in 2007 was less
than90pips,whichmeanthatitdidnotevenmakeitontoourlistofmost
market-moving indicators for the U.S. dollar. Back in 2004, the average
dailymoveinEUR/USDaftertheGDPreleasewas110pips.
Oneofthebiggestchangesthatwehaveseenoverthepastfewyearsis
thefactthatknee-jerkreactionsaremoretempered.In2004,weusedtosee
a lot of knee-jerk spikes followed by retracements. Oftentimes this made
the reaction to U.S. economic data in the first 20 minutes larger than the
end-of-dayreaction.In2007,however,wesawsmallerknee-jerkreactions
andlongerfollow-through.Oneofthemainreasonsforthisdifferencemay
havebeenthefactthattheFederalReservewasloweringinterestratesin
2007. Therefore, traders needed to better assess the ramifications of the
economic release for the Fed’s next monetary policy decision. According
toourownanalysisof20-minuteanddailyreactions,wehavecreatedthe
followingrankingsforU.S.economicdata:
TopMarket-MovingIndicatorsfortheU.S.Dollar(Basedon
2007Data)
First20Minutes:
1. NonfarmPayrolls
2. InterestRates(FOMCRateDecision)
3. Inflation(ConsumerPrices)
4. RetailSales
5. ProducerPrices
6. NewHomeSales
7. ExistingHomeSales
8. DurableGoodsOrders
9. GrossDomesticProduct
Daily:
1. NonfarmPayrolls
2. ISMNonmanufacturing
3. PersonalSpending
4. Inflation(ConsumerPrices)

P1:JYS
c04 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 13:15 Printer:Yettocome
62 DAYTRADINGANDSWINGTRADINGTHECURRENCYMARKET
5. ExistingHomeSales
6. ConsumerConfidence(ConferenceBoard)
7. UniversityofMichiganConsumerConfidence
8. FOMCMinutes
9. IndustrialProduction
It is also interesting to point out that the nonmanufacturing ISM re-
port appears prominently on the daily list and not at all on the 20-minute
list. With a number of underlying components, there is always more than
meets the eye when it comes to the ISM report. Traders need to look at
both the employment and price components to determine which way the
FederalReservemayleannext.Service-sectorISMisextremelyimportant
nonetheless, because the employment component of the report is a very
goodleadingindicatorforthedirectionofnonfarmpayrolls.
RELATIVE IMPORTANCE OF ECONOMIC
DATA CHANGES WITH TIME
Astheworldchangeswithtime,sodoesthesignificanceofthevariouseco-
nomic releases. Between 2004 and 2007 alone, different economic indica-
torshaveappearedonourtopindicatorslist.Forexample,in2004noone
reallygaveasecondthoughttohousingmarketnumbers,becausethereal
estatemarketwasboomingandeveryoneexpectedthisboomtocontinue
forever. By 2007, however, the housing market bubble had burst and its
problemshadspreadthroughouttheU.S.andglobaleconomies.Notonly
were house prices falling and inventory rising, but more and more home-
owners were pushed into defaulting on their mortgages. This made the
healthofthehousingmarketcriticaltotheoutlookfortheU.S.economy.
Everyone realizedthat fortheU.S. economy torecover, thehousing mar-
ketwouldneedtostabilize.Therefore,tradersbegantoreactmoretothe
monthlyexistinghomesalesnumbersthantothebalanceoftradereport.
Interestinglyenough,accordingtoaNationalBureauofEconomicRe-
search (NBER) working paper titled “Macroeconomic Implications of the
BeliefsandBehaviorofForeignExchangeTraders,”byYin-WongCheung
and Menzie D. Chinn, in 1992 the trade balance was actually the most
market-moving indicator for the U.S. dollar in the first 20 minutes of the
release. At that time, the nonfarm payrolls release was third. In 1999, un-
employmentornonfarmpayrollstookthetopplacewhilethetradebalance
felltofourth.AsindicatedbyTable4.1,thenonfarmpayrollsreportcontin-
uestobethemostmarket-movingreleasefortheU.S.dollar,andthetrade
balancehascompletelyfallenofftheradarscreenformanytraders.

P1:JYS
c04 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 13:15 Printer:Yettocome
WhatMovestheMarketintheShortTerm? 63
Intuitively, it makes sense that the market will shift its attention
to different economic data and sectors of the U.S. economy based on
the changes in the economy. For example, trade balances may be more
importantwhenacountryisrunningunsustainabletradedeficits,whereas
aneconomythatishavingdifficultiescreatingjobswillseeunemployment
data as more important. It is all about putting yourself in the shoes of
the central bank governor and thinking about what problems are most
pressing.
FXDealerRankingoftheImportanceofEconomicData:
ChangesoverTime
Asof2007 Asof1992
1. NonfarmPayrolls 1. TradeBalance
(Unemployment) 2. InterestRates(FOMCRate
2. InterestRates(FOMCRate Decisions)
Decisions) 3. NonfarmPayrolls
3. Inflation(ConsumerPrices) (Unemployment)
4. RetailSales 4. Inflation
5. ProducerPrices 5. GDP
GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT—NO
LONGER A BIG DEAL
Contrary to popular belief, the GDP report is no longer a very market-
movingindicatorfortheU.S.dollar.OnepossibleexplanationisthatGDP
isreleasedlessfrequentlythanotherdatausedinthestudy(quarterlyver-
sus monthly), but the GDP data isalso more prone toambiguity and mis-
interpretation.Forexample,surgingGDPbroughtaboutbyrisingexports
willbepositiveforthehomecurrency;however,ifGDPgrowthisaresult
ofinventorybuildup,theeffectonthecurrencymayactuallybenegative.
In addition, many of the components that comprise the GDP report are
knowninadvanceoftherelease.
HOW CAN YOU USE THIS TO
YOUR BENEFIT?
For breakout traders, the knowledge of which data are being released on
thedayyouplacethetradecanhelptodeterminethesizeandconfidence

P1:JYS
c04 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 13:15 Printer:Yettocome
64 DAYTRADINGANDSWINGTRADINGTHECURRENCYMARKET
ofthetrade.Forexample,inthedailyEUR/USDchartshowninFigure4.1,
weseeatriangleformingaspricesconsolidate.Ifthenonfarmpayrollsre-
port was expected the next day (which it was), a breakout trader would
probably overweight positions on the eve prior in anticipation of a large
breakoutfollowingtherelease.Incontrast,thethirdbaroftheconsolida-
tion was the day of the GDP release. As you can see, the range was still
comparatively tight despite the fact that a breakout appeared imminent.
Given the knowledge that the average instantaneous 20-minute move af-
tertheGDPreleaseisnotevencomparabletothenonfarmpayrollsmove,
the same breakout players hoping for a large move off of that economic
release should probably put on only 50 percent of the same position that
theywouldhavetakenifNFPwassettobereleased.Thesameguidelines
applyforrangetradersorsystemtraders.Nonfarmpayrollsdaywouldbea
perfecttimetostandonthesidelinesandwaitforpricestosettle,whereas
the day that GDP is being released could still provide an opportunity for
solidrange-orsystem-basedtrading.
Overall,knowingwhateconomicindicatormovesthemarketthemost
isextremelyimportantforalltraders.Knowingthe20-minuteversusdaily
rangeisalsoveryimportant,becauseittellsyouwhichpiecesofeconomic
datawillcauseknee-jerkreactionsandwhichpiecesofdatawillhavemore
lasting reactions in the currency market. It is also critical to stay abreast
(EUR.A0-FX - Euro.D) Dynamic, 0:00-24:00
1.2800
1.2735
1.2700
1.2600
1.2500
1.2400
1.2300
1.2200
1.2100
1.2000
7 14 21 28 5 12 19 26 2 9 16 23 30 6 13 20 27 4 11 18 25
FIGURE 4.1 EUR/USDDailyChart
(Source:www.eSignal.com)

P1:JYS
c04 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 13:15 Printer:Yettocome
WhatMovestheMarketintheShortTerm? 65
ofwhichdatathemarketdeemsimportantatanypointintime,becauseas
themarketiscyclical,soistheeconomicdatathattraderswillfocuson.
RESOURCE
Yin-Wong Cheung and Menzie D. Chinn, “Macroeconomic Implications
of the Beliefs and Behavior of Foreign Exchange Traders,” NBER
Working Paper 7417, November 1999 (www.georgetown.edu/faculty/
evansm1/New%20Micro/chinn.pdf).

P1:JYS
c04 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 13:15 Printer:Yettocome
66

P1:JYS
c05 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 13:23 Printer:Yettocome
C H A P T E R 5
What Are the
Best Times to
Trade for
Individual
Currency Pairs?
T
he foreign exchange market operates 24 hours a day and as a result
it is impossible for a trader to track every single market movement
andmakeanimmediateresponseatalltimes.Timingiseverythingin
currency trading. In order to devise an effective and time-efficient invest-
mentstrategy,itisimportanttonotetheamountofmarketactivityaround
theclockinordertomaximizethenumberoftradingopportunitiesduring
a trader’s own market hours. Besides liquidity, a currency pair’s trading
range is also heavily dependent on geographical location and macroeco-
nomic factors. Knowing what time of day a currency pair has the widest
ornarrowesttradingrangewillundoubtedlyhelptradersimprovetheirin-
vestment utility due to better capital allocation. This chapter outlines the
typical trading activity of major currency pairs in different time zones to
see when they are the most volatile. Table 5.1 tabulates the average pip
rangeforthedifferentcurrencypairsduringvarioustimeframesbetween
2002and2004.
ASIAN SESSION (TOKYO):
7 P.M.–4 A.M. EST
FXtradinginAsiaisconductedinmajorregionalfinancialhubs;duringthe
Asian trading session, Tokyo takes the largest market share, followed by
Hong Kong and Singapore. Despite the flagging influence of the Japanese
centralbankontheFXmarket,Tokyoremainsoneofthemostimportant
dealingcentersinAsia.ItisthefirstmajorAsianmarkettoopen,andmany
largeparticipantsoftenusethetrademomentumthereasthebenchmarkto
67

P1:JYS
c05 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 13:23 Printer:Yettocome
segnaRriaPycnerruC
1.5ELBAT
palrevOaisA&eporuE
palrevOeporuE&.S.U
noisseS.S.U
noisseSnaeporuE
noisseSnaisA
.M.A4–.M.A2
.M.P21–.M.A8
.M.P5–.M.A8
.M.A21–.M.A2
.M.A4–.M.P7
)TSE(sriaPycnerruC
23
56
87
78
15
DSU/RUE
92
85
96
97
87
YPJ/DSU
34
87
49
211
56
DSU/PBG
34
88
701
711
86
FHC/DSU
42
04
94
35
35
FHC/RUE
02
93
74
35
83
DSU/DUA
82
47
48
49
74
DAC/DSU
02
83
64
25
24
DSU/DZN
61
72
43
04
52
PBG/RUE
06
99
911
541
211
YPJ/PBG
26
501
921
051
69
FHC/PBG
62
74
65
36
55
YPJ/DUA
68

P1:JYS
c05 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 13:23 Printer:Yettocome
WhatAretheBestTimestoTradeforIndividualCurrencyPairs? 69
gaugemarketdynamicsaswellastodevisetheirtradingstrategies.Trading
in Tokyo can be thin from time to time; but large investment banks and
hedge funds are known to try to use the Asian session to run important
stopandoptionbarrierlevels.Figure5.1providesarankingofthedifferent
currencypairsandtheirrangesduringtheAsiantradingsession.
Forthemorerisk-toleranttraders,USD/JPY,GBP/CHF,andGBP/JPY
aregoodpicksbecausetheirbroadrangesprovideshort-termtraderswith
lucrativeprofitpotentials,averaging90pips.Foreigninvestmentbanksand
institutional investors, which hold mostly dollar-dominated assets, gen-
erate a significant amount of USD/JPY transactions when they enter the
Japanese equity and bond markets. Japan’s central bank, with more than
$800billionofU.S.Treasurysecurities,alsoplaysaninfluentialroleinaf-
fecting the supply and demand of USD/JPY through its open market op-
erations. Last but not least, large Japanese exporters are known to use
the Tokyo trading hours to repatriate their foreign earnings, heightening
thefluctuationofthecurrencypair.GBP/CHFandGBP/JPYremainhighly
volatileascentralbankersandlargeplayersstarttoscalethemselvesinto
positionsinanticipationoftheopeningoftheEuropeansession.
For the more risk-averse traders, AUD/JPY, GBP/USD, and USD/CHF
aregoodchoicesbecausetheyallowmedium-termtolong-termtradersto
takefundamentalfactorsintoaccountwhenmakingadecision.Themod-
eratevolatilityofthecurrencypairswillhelptoshieldtradersandtheirin-
vestmentstrategiesfrombeingpronetoirregularmarketmovementsdue
tointradayspeculativetrades.
FIGURE 5.1 AsianSessionVolatility

P1:JYS
c05 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 13:23 Printer:Yettocome
70 DAYTRADINGANDSWINGTRADINGTHECURRENCYMARKET
U.S. SESSION (NEW YORK):
8 A.M.–5 P.M. EST
NewYorkisthesecondlargestFXmarketplace,encompassing19percent
oftotalFXmarketvolumeturnoveraccordingtothe2004TriennialCentral
BankSurveyofForeignExchangeandDerivativesMarketActivityinApril
2004,publishedbytheBankforInternationalSettlements(BIS).Itisalso
the financial center that guards the back door of the world’s FX market
as trading activity usually winds down to a minimum from its afternoon
session until the opening of the Tokyo market the next day. The majority
ofthetransactionsduringtheU.S.sessionareexecutedbetween8a.m.and
noon,aperiodwithhighliquiditybecauseEuropeantradersarestillinthe
market.
Forthemorerisk-toleranttraders,GBP/USD,USD/CHF,GBP/JPY,and
GBP/CHFaregoodchoicesfordaytraderssincethedailyrangesaverage
about120pips.(SeeFigure5.2.)Tradingactivitiesinthesecurrencypairs
areparticularlyactivebecausethesetransactionsdirectlyinvolvetheU.S.
dollar. When the U.S. equity and bond markets are open during the U.S.
session, foreign investors have to convert their domestic currency, such
as the Japanese yen, the euro, and the Swiss franc, into dollar-dominated
assets in order to carry out their transactions. With the market overlap,
GBP/JPYandGBP/CHFhavethewidestdailyranges.
FIGURE 5.2 U.S.SessionVolatility

P1:JYS
c05 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 13:23 Printer:Yettocome
WhatAretheBestTimestoTradeforIndividualCurrencyPairs? 71
Most currencies in the FX market are quoted with the U.S. dollar
as the base and primarily traded against it before translating into other
currencies. In the GBP/JPY case, for a British pound to be converted
into Japanese yen, it has to be traded against the dollar first, then into
yen. Therefore, a GBP/JPY trade involves two different currency transac-
tions, GBP/USD and USD/JPY, and its volatility is ultimately determined
by the correlations of the two derived currency pairs. Since GBP/USD
and USD/JPY have negative correlations, which means their direction of
movements are opposite to each other, the volatility of GBP/JPY is thus
amplified. USD/CHF movement can also be explained similarly but has a
greater intensity. Trading currency pairs with high volatility can be very
lucrative, but it is also important to bear in mind that the risk involved
is very high as well. Traders should continuously revise their strategies
inresponsetomarketconditionsbecauseabruptmovementsinexchange
rates can easily stop out their trading orders or nullify their long-term
strategies.
For the more risk-averse traders, USD/JPY, EUR/USD, and USD/CAD
appeartobegoodchoicessincethesepairsoffertradersadecentamount
oftradingrangetogarnerhandsomeprofitswithasmalleramountofrisk.
Theirhighlyliquidnatureallowsaninvestortosecureprofitsorcutlosses
promptly and efficiently. The modest volatility of these pairs also pro-
vides a favorable environment for traders who want to pursue long-term
strategies.
EUROPEAN SESSION (LONDON):
2 A.M.–12 P.M. EST
Londonisthelargestandmostimportantdealingcenterintheworld,with
amarketshareatmorethan30percentaccordingtotheBISsurvey.Most
ofthedealingdesksoflargebanksarelocatedinLondon;themajorityof
majorFXtransactionsarecompletedduringLondonhoursduetothemar-
ket’shighliquidityandefficiency.Thevastnumberofmarketparticipants
andtheirhightransactionvaluemakeLondonthemostvolatileFXmarket
ofall.AsshowninFigure5.3,halfofthe12majorpairssurpassthe80pips
line, the benchmark that we used to identify volatile pairs with GBP/JPY
andGBP/CHFreachingashighas140and146pipsrespectively.
GBP/JPY and GBP/CHF are apt for the risk lovers. These two pairs
haveanaveragedailyrangeofmorethan140pipsandcanbeusedtogen-
erateahugeamountofprofitsinashortperiodoftime.Suchhighvolatility
for the two pairs reflects the peak of daily trade activity as large partic-
ipants are about to complete their cycle of currency conversion around

P1:JYS
c05 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 13:23 Printer:Yettocome
72 DAYTRADINGANDSWINGTRADINGTHECURRENCYMARKET
FIGURE 5.3 EuropeanSessionVolatility
the world. London hours are directly connected to both the U.S. and the
Asian sessions; as soon as large banks and institutional investors are fin-
ished repositioning their portfolios, they will need to start converting the
Europeanassetsintodollar-denominatedonesagaininanticipationofthe
opening of the U.S. market. The combination of the two reconversions
by the big players is the major reason for the extremely high volatility in
thepairs.
Forthemorerisk-toleranttraders,thereareplentyofpairstochoose
from. EUR/USD, USD/CAD, GBP/USD, and USD/CHF, with an average
range of 100 pips, are ideal picks as their high volatilities offer an abun-
dance of opportunity to enter the market. As mentioned earlier, trade be-
tweentheEuropeancurrenciesandthedollarpicksupagainbecausethe
large participants have to reshuffle their portfolios for the opening of the
U.S.session.
Forthemorerisk-averseparticipants,theNZD/USD,AUD/USD,EUR/
CHF, and AUD/JPY, with an average of about 50 pips, are good choices
as these pairs provide traders with high interest incomes in additional to
potential trade profits. These pairs allow investors to determine their di-
rectionofmovementsbasedonfundamentaleconomicfactorsandbeless
pronetolossesduetointradayspeculativetrades.

P1:JYS
c05 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 13:23 Printer:Yettocome
WhatAretheBestTimestoTradeforIndividualCurrencyPairs? 73
U.S.–EUROPEAN OVERLAP:
8 A.M.–12 P.M. EST
TheFXmarketstendtobemostactivewhenthehoursoftheworld’stwo
largest trading centers overlap. (See Figure 5.4.) The range of trading be-
tween8a.m.andnoonESTconstitutesonaverage70percentofthetotal
averagerangeoftradingforallofthecurrencypairsduringtheEuropean
tradinghoursand80percentofthetotalaveragerangeoftradingforallof
thecurrencypairsduringU.S.tradinghours.Justthesepercentagesalone
tell day traders that if they are really looking for volatile price action and
wide ranges and cannot sit at the screen all day, the time to trade is the
U.S.andEuropeanoverlap.
EUROPEAN–ASIAN OVERLAP:
2 A.M.–4 A.M. EST
The trade intensity in the European–Asian overlap is far lower than in
any other session because of the slow trading during the Asian morning.
(See Figure 5.5) Of course, the time period surveyed is relatively smaller
as well. With trading extremely thin during these hours, risk-tolerant and
risk-loving traders can take a two-hour nap or spend the time positioning
themselvesforabreakoutmoveattheEuropeanorU.S.open.
FIGURE 5.4 U.S.–EuropeanOverlap

P1:JYS
c05 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 13:23 Printer:Yettocome
74 DAYTRADINGANDSWINGTRADINGTHECURRENCYMARKET
FIGURE 5.5 European–AsianOverlap

P1:JYS
c06 JWBK299-Lein September23,2008 9:58 Printer:Yettocome
C H A P T E R 6
What Are
Currency
Correlations and
How Do Traders
Use Them?
W
hen trading the FX market, one of the most important facts to
remember is that the price action of each currency pair is not
mutually exclusive. In many cases, foreign economic conditions,
interestrates,andpricechangesaffectmuchmorethanjustasinglepair-
ing. Everything is interrelated in the forex market to some extent, and
knowing the direction and how strong this relationship is can be used to
developeffectivetradingstrategiesandhasthepotentialtobeagreattrad-
ingtool.Thebottomlineisthatunlessyouonlywanttotradeonecurrency
pair at a time, it is extremely important to take into account how differ-
ent currency pairs move relative to one another. To do this, we can use
correlationanalysis.
Correlations are calculations based on pricing data, and these num-
berscanhelpgaugetherelationshipsthatexistbetweendifferentcurrency
pairs.Theinformationthatthenumbersgiveuscanbeagoodaidforany
traderswhowanttodiversifytheirportfolios,doubleuponpositionswith-
out investing in the same currency pair, or just get an idea of how much
risktheirtradesareopeningthemupto.Ifusedcorrectly,thismethodhas
the potential to maximize gains, gauge exposure, and help prevent coun-
terproductivetrading.
75

P1:JYS
c06 JWBK299-Lein September23,2008 9:58 Printer:Yettocome
76 DAYTRADINGANDSWINGTRADINGTHECURRENCYMARKET
POSITIVE/NEGATIVE CORRELATIONS:
WHAT THEY MEAN AND HOW TO
USE THEM
Knowinghowcloselycorrelatedthecurrencypairsareinyourportfoliois
agreatwaytomeasureyourexposureandrisk.Youmightthinkthatyou’re
diversifyingyourportfoliobyinvestingindifferentpairs,butmanyofthem
haveatendencytomoveinthesameoroppositedirectiontooneanother.
Thecorrelationsbetweenpairscanbestrongorweakandlastforweeks,
months,orevenyears.Basically,whatacorrelationnumbergivesusisan
estimateofhowcloselypairsmovetogetherorhowoppositetheiractions
are over a specified period of time. Any correlation calculation will be in
decimal form; the closer the number is to 1, the stronger the connection
between the two currencies. For example, by looking at the sample data
inTable6.1,wecanseea+0.83correlationbetweentheUSD/JPYandthe
USD/CHFcurrencypairsoverthepastmonth.Ifyouarenotafanofdeci-
mals,youcanalsothinkofthenumberasapercentagebymultiplyingitby
100percent(inthiscasegettinga83percentcorrelationbetweenUSD/JPY
andUSD/CHF).
Highdecimalsindicatecurrencypairsthatcloselymirroroneanother,
whereaslowernumberstellusthatthepairsdonotusuallymoveinapar-
allelfashion.Therefore,becausethereisahighcorrelationbetweenthese
twocurrencypairs,wecanseethatbyinvestinginboththeUSD/JPYand
the USD/CHF, we are effectively doubling up on a position. Likewise, it
might not be the best idea to go long one of the currency pairs and short
theother,becausearallyinonehasahighlikelihoodofalsosettingoffa
rallyintheother.Whilethiswouldnotmakeyourprofitandlossesexactly
zero (because they have different pip values), the two do move in such a
similarfashionthattakingopposingpositionscouldtakeabiteoutofprof-
itsorevencauselosses.
Positive correlations aren’t the only way to measure similarities be-
tween pairings; negative correlations can be just as useful. In this case,
insteadofaverypositivenumber,wearelookingforahighlynegativeone.
Just as on the positive side, the closer the number is to –1, the more
connected the two currencies movements are, this time in the opposite
direction.Let’stakealookattheEUR/USD,whichhasaverynegativere-
lationshipwiththeUSD/CHF.Betweenthesetwocurrencypairs,thecor-
relation has been –0.83 over the past year and –0.94 over the past month.
Thisnumberindicatesthatthesetwopairingshaveastrongpropensityto
move in opposite directions. Therefore, taking contrary positions on the
twopairscouldbethesameastakingthesamepositionontwohighlypos-
itivecorrelatedpairs.Inthiscase,goinglonginoneandshortingtheother
would be almost the same as doubling up on the position and as a result

P1:JYS
c06 JWBK299-Lein September23,2008 9:58 Printer:Yettocome
WhatAreCurrencyCorrelationsandHowDoTradersUseThem? 77
would also open your portfolio up to a higher amount of risk. However,
going long or short on both at the same time would probably be counter-
productive and lead to near zero profit and losses, because the two cur-
rencypairsmoveinoppositedirections.Therefore,ifonesideofthetrade
becameprofitable,theotherwouldusuallyresultinlosses.
IMPORTANT FACT ABOUT
CORRELATIONS: THEY CHANGE
AnyonewhohasevertradedtheFXmarketknowsthatcurrenciesarevery
dynamic; economic conditions, both sentiment and pricing, change every
day.Becauseofthis,themostimportantaspecttorememberwhenanalyz-
ingcurrencycorrelationsisthattheycanalsoeasilychangeovertime.The
strong correlations that are calculated today might not be the same this
timenextmonth.Duetotheconstantreshapingoftheforexenvironment,
it is imperative to keep current if you decide to use this method for trad-
ing.Forexample,overaone-monthperiodthatweobserved,thecorrela-
tionbetweenAUD/USDandGBP/USDwas0.08.Thisisaverylownumber
andwouldindicatethatthepairsdonotreallyshareanydefinitivetrendin
theirmovements.However,ifwelookatthethree-monthdataforthesame
timeperiod,thenumberincreasesto0.24andthento0.41forsixmonths
andfinallyto0.45forayear.Therefore,forthisparticularexamplewecan
seethattherewasablatantrecentbreakdownintherelationshipbetween
thesetwopairs.Whatwasonceastrongerpositiveassociationinthelong
run has almost totally deteriorated over the short term. In contrast, the
EUR/USD and AUD/USD pairing has shown a strengthening trend in the
mostrecentdata.Thecorrelationbetweenthesetwopairsstartedat–0.52
fortheyearandedgedupto–0.63forthepastmonth.
An even more dramatic example of the extent to which these num-
berscanchangecanbefoundintheUSD/JPYandAUD/USDpairing;there
wasa+0.41correlationbetweenthetwofortheyearlongdata.However,
whilethesetwotendedtomoveinreasonablysimilardirectionsinthelong
term,overthemonthofApril2008theywereactuallynegativelycorrelated
witha–0.30reading.Themajoreventsthatchangethedegreeandevendi-
rectionthatpairsarecorrelatedareusuallyassociatedwiththeeconomic
developmentsandmarketsentimentatthetime.
CALCULATING CORRELATIONS
YOURSELF
Because correlations have a tendency to shift over time, the best way to
keepcurrentonthedirectionandstrengthofyourpairingsistocalculate

P1:JYS
c06 JWBK299-Lein September23,2008 9:58 Printer:Yettocome
78 DAYTRADINGANDSWINGTRADINGTHECURRENCYMARKET
themyourself.Althoughitmightseemlikeatrickyconcept,theactualpro-
cess can be made quite easy. The simplest way to calculate the numbers
is to use Microsoft Excel. In Excel, you can take the currency pairs that
youwanttoderiveacorrelationfromoveraspecifictimeperiodandjust
usethecorrelationfunction.Takingtheone-year,six-month,three-month,
andone-monthtrailingreadingsgivesthemostcomprehensiveviewofthe
similaritiesanddifferencesbetweenpairs;however,youcandecidewhich
or how many of these readings you want to analyze. Breaking down the
processstep-by-step,we’llfindthecorrelationbetweentheUSD/GBPand
theUSD/CHF.
First you’ll need to get the pricing data for the two pairings. To keep
organized, label one column GBP and the other CHF and then put in the
weekly values of these currencies using the last price and pairing them
with the USD for whatever time period you want to use. At the bottom
ofthetwocolumns,gotoanemptyslotandtypein=CORREL.Highlight
all of the data in one of the pricing columns, type in a comma, and then
do the same thing for the other currency; the number produced is your
correlation.Althoughitisnotnecessarytoupdateyournumberseveryday,
updatingthemonceeverycoupleofweeksorattheveryleastonceamonth
isgenerallyagoodidea.
SAMPLE CORRELATIONS RESULTS
Table6.1presentsasampleoftheoutputresults.

P1:JYS
c06 JWBK299-Lein September23,2008 9:58 Printer:Yettocome
8002lirpArofataD:elbaTnoitalerroC
1.6ELBAT
DAC/DSU
FHC/DSU
DSU/DZN
DSU/PBG
YPJ/DSU
DSU/DUA
DSU/RUE
51.0−
49.0−
74.0
63.0
07.0−
36.0
htnoM1
02.0−
68.0−
13.0
64.0
16.0−
34.0
shtnoM3
33.0−
58.0−
05.0
55.0
63.0−
15.0
shtnoM6
83.0−
38.0−
74.0
06.0
62.0−
25.0
raeY1
DAC/DSU
FHC/DSU
DSU/DZN
DSU/PBG
YPJ/DSU
DSU/RUE
DSU/DUA
62.0−
64.0−
28.0
80.0
03.0−
36.0
htnoM1
25.0−
70.0−
58.0
42.0
31.0
34.0
shtnoM3
06.0−
51.0−
68.0
14.0
53.0
15.0
shtnoM6
06.0−
61.0−
68.0
54.0
14.0
25.0
raeY1
DAC/DSU
FHC/DSU
DSU/DZN
DSU/PBG
DSU/DUA
DSU/RUE
YPJ/DSU
61.0−
38.0
20.0−
01.0−
03.0−
07.0−
htnoM1
03.0−
68.0
22.0
70.0−
31.0
16.0−
shtnoM3
93.0−
86.0
63.0
10.0
53.0
63.0−
shtnoM6
63.0−
16.0
44.0
40.0
14.0
62.0−
raeY1
DAC/DSU
FHC/DSU
DSU/DZN
YPJ/DSU
DSU/DUA
DSU/RUE
DSU/PBG
42.0−
13.0−
02.0
01.0−
80.0
63.0
htnoM1
63.0−
03.0−
52.0
70.0−
42.0
64.0
shtnoM3
24.0−
43.0−
73.0
10.0
14.0
55.0
shtnoM6
44.0−
83.0−
14.0
40.0
54.0
06.0
raeY1
DAC/DSU
FHC/DSU
DSU/PBG
YPJ/DSU
DSU/DUA
DSU/RUE
DSU/DZN
40.0−
92.0−
02.0
20.0−
28.0
74.0
htnoM1
44.0−
40.0
52.0
22.0
58.0
13.0
shtnoM3
25.0−
31.0−
73.0
63.0
68.0
05.0
shtnoM6
55.0−
01.0−
14.0
44.0
68.0
74.0
raeY1
79

P1:JYS
c06 JWBK299-Lein September23,2008 9:58 Printer:Yettocome
)deunitnoC(8002lirpArofataD:elbaTnoitalerroC
1.6ELBAT
DAC/DSU
DSU/DZN
DSU/PBG
YPJ/DSU
DSU/DUA
DSU/RUE
FHC/DSU
20.0
92.0−
13.0−
38.0
64.0−
49.0−
htnoM1
90.0−
40.0
03.0−
68.0
70.0−
68.0−
shtnoM3
40.0
31.0−
43.0−
86.0
51.0−
58.0−
shtnoM6
90.0
01.0−
83.0−
16.0
61.0−
38.0−
raeY1
FHC/DSU
DSU/DZN
DSU/PBG
YPJ/DSU
DSU/DUA
DSU/RUE
DAC/DSU
20.0
40.0−
42.0−
61.0−
62.0−
51.0−
htnoM1
90.0−
44.0−
63.0−
03.0−
25.0−
02.0−
shtnoM3
40.0
25.0−
24.0−
93.0−
06.0−
33.0−
shtnoM6
90.0
55.0−
44.0−
63.0−
06.0−
83.0−
raeY1
DAC/DSU
FHC/DSU
DSU/DZN
DSU/PBG
YPJ/DSU
DSU/DUA
DSU/RUE
etaD
94.0−
08.0−
64.0
17.0
20.0−
45.0
gniliarThtnoM-6
7002/13/01–7002/1/5
15.0−
08.0−
84.0
27.0
30.0
45.0
gniliarThtnoM-6
7002/03/11–7002/1/6
74.0−
18.0−
25.0
47.0
30.0−
55.0
gniliarThtnoM-6
7002/13/21–7002/2/7
05.0−
38.0−
06.0
76.0
10.0−
85.0
gniliarThtnoM-6
8002/13/1–7002/1/8
64.0−
48.0−
45.0
66.0
02.0−
75.0
gniliarThtnoM-6
8002/92/2–7002/3/9
93.0−
38.0−
94.0
06.0
03.0−
25.0
gniliarThtnoM-6
8002/13/3–7002/1/01
33.0−
58.0−
05.0
55.0
63.0−
15.0
gniliarThtnoM-6
8002/03/4–7002/1/11
54.0−
28.0−
15.0
66.0
31.0−
55.0
egarevA
80

P1:JYS
c07 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 17:32 Printer:Yettocome
C H A P T E R 7
Seasonality—How
It Applies to
the FX Market
M
ost traders attempt to analyze the future direction of currencies
by using either fundamental or technical analysis—or if they’re
feelingparticularlycrafty,acombinationofboth.However,many
tradersmaynotrealizethattheclearestwaytoanalyzepastpricebehavior
maybetolookatthepriceactivityitself,withoutthenoiseoftheindica-
tors.Onewaytodothisisthroughseasonality.
Stocktradersmaybeveryfamiliarwiththeconceptofseasonality,be-
cause one of the most famous cases of seasonality is the January effect
inequities.Firstidentifiedin1942,itwaspublicizedbyRobertA.Haugen
andJosefLakonishokin1992throughtheirbookThe Incredible January
Effect: The Stock Market’s Unsolved Mystery (Irwin Professional Pub.,
1987). The theory behind the January effect is that stocks perform par-
ticularlywellintheperiodbetweenthelastdayofDecemberandthefifth
tradingdayofJanuary.Thereasonforthishistoricallyspectacularperfor-
manceisthereversalofyear-endflows.Whenafiscalyearcomestoaclose,
manyinvestorsmaycashinontheirstockstocreatetaxlossesandtorec-
ognizetheircapitalgains,whilesomecorporationsmaydosimilarthingsto
window-dresstheirbalancesheets.TheJanuaryeffectisnottheonlycase
ofseasonalityinstocks.Anotherpattern,knownastheMarkTwaineffect,
refers to stock returns being particularly weak in the month of October.
The name of the effect comes from a quote in Mark Twain’s Pudd’nhead
Wilson novel: “October. This is one of the peculiarly dangerous months
to speculate in stocks. The others are July, January, September, April,
November,May,March,June,December,August,andFebruary.”
Seasonality, which is defined as a pattern that occurs at given times
withinacalendaryear,isnotuniquetotheequitymarket.Unsurprisingly,
81

P1:JYS
c07 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 17:32 Printer:Yettocome
82 DAYTRADINGANDSWINGTRADINGTHECURRENCYMARKET
it occurs in the currency market as well. As in stocks, the most obvious
caseofseasonality isinthemonthofJanuary. Thismakessense because
when foreign investors reinitiate some of their equity market positions in
themonthofJanuary,theywillusuallyneedtoconverttheirlocalcurren-
ciesintoU.S.dollars.Withthatinmind,however,notallcurrencypairsare
createdequal;therefore,theU.S.dollarmayseeastrongercaseofseason-
alityagainstsomecurrenciesthanagainstothers.
SEASONALITY IN JANUARY
At the end of 2007, I conducted a seasonality study for the month of
January. The study measures the change between the price of a currency
pairatthebeginningofthemonthandattheendofthemonthforthepast
11 years (1997 to 2007). According to the data, the strongest case of sea-
sonalitywasintheEUR/USDandUSD/CHF.
As illustrated in Figure 7.1, the U.S. dollar rose against the euro nine
out of the past 11 years or 81.8 percent of the time between January 1
EUR/USD January Performance 1997–2007
4%
2.5% 2.7%
2%
0%
–0.5%
–1.0%
–2% –1.3%
–1.7%
–3.2%
–4% –3.6% –3.4% –3.7%
–6%
–8%
–7.8%
–10%
1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007
FIGURE 7.1 EUR/USDJanuaryPerformance1997–2007

P1:JYS
c07 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 17:32 Printer:Yettocome
Seasonality—HowItAppliestotheFXMarket 83
andJanuary31(syntheticeuropriceswereusedpriortotheeuro’slaunch
in January 1999). The biggest percentage loss was in 1997, when the
EUR/USD dropped 7.8 percent, while the average loss, including the two
upyearsin2003and2006,was–1.9percent.Lookingalittlefurtherback,
theaveragelossbetween1979and2007was–1.2percent.Beginning-of-the-
year positioning is the primary reason for this strong case of seasonality,
and even though it does not happen 100 percent of the time, the fact that
it has happened 81.8 percent of the time makes it statistically significant.
Keepingontopofseasonalityhelpstradersfocusonstrategieswhereprob-
abilitiesareintheirfavor.
WeseeasimilarcaseofJanuaryseasonalityinUSD/CHF.InFigure7.2,
theU.S.dollaralsoroseagainsttheSwissfrancnineoutofthepast11years
or 81.8 percent of the time between January 1 and January 31. The cor-
relation between the EUR/USD and USD/CHF data is unsurprising given
that these two currency pairs typically move in opposite directions. The
biggest percentage gain in the dollar was also in 1997 when the currency
pairrallied6.1percent.Thebiggestpercentagelosswasin2006whenthe
USD/CHF January Performance 1997–2007
7%
6.1%
6%
5%
4.2%
3.9%
4% 3.5%
3.2%
3%
2.1%
2% 1.5% 1.5%
1.1%
1%
0%
–1%
–1.3%
–2%
–3%
–2.7%
–4%
1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007
FIGURE 7.2 USD/CHFJanuaryPerformance1997–2007

P1:JYS
c07 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 17:32 Printer:Yettocome
84 DAYTRADINGANDSWINGTRADINGTHECURRENCYMARKET
currencypairdropped2.7percent.IncludingthetwoyearswhenUSD/CHF
declined, on average the currency pair rose 2.1 percent in the month of
Januarybetween1997and2007.Lookingalittlefurtherback,theaverage
gainbetween1979and2007was2.0percent.
The seasonality in USD/JPY for the month of January is slightly less
thantheseasonalityintheEUR/USDorUSD/CHF.AccordingtoFigure7.3,
theU.S.dollarroseagainsttheJapaneseyeneightoutofthepast11years
or72.7percentofthetimebetweenJanuary1andJanuary31.Thebiggest
percentage gain was in 2000 when the currency pair rallied 4.9 percent.
The biggest percentage loss was in 1998 when the currency pair dropped
2.8percent.IncludingthethreeyearswhenUSD/JPYdropped,onaverage
the currency pair rose 1.3 percent in the month of January between 1997
and2007.Lookingalittlefurtherback,theaveragegainbetween1979and
2007was1.04percent.Partofthereasonwhytheseasonalitymaynotbe
asstronginUSD/JPYisbecauseJapanhasadifferentfiscalyear-endthan
the United States. Japan’s fiscal year-end is in March, which means there
maybelesswindowdressingbyJapanesecorporationsduringthemonth
ofJanuary.
USD/JPY January Performance 1997–2007
6%
4.9%
5% 4.6%
4%
3% 2.5%
2.2%
1.9%
2%
1.4%
1.0% 0.9%
1%
0%
–1% –0.6%
–1.4%
–2%
–3%
–2.8%
–4%
1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007
FIGURE 7.3 USD/JPYJanuaryPerformance1997–2007

P1:JYS
c07 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 17:32 Printer:Yettocome
Seasonality—HowItAppliestotheFXMarket 85
Aside from the EUR/USD, USD/CHF, and USD/JPY, there really is no
seasonality in the other major currency pairs. Over the past 11 years, for
example,theU.S.dollarclimbedagainsttheBritishpound,Australiandol-
lar,andCanadiandollarsixtimes,whichis54percentofthesample,while
itroseagainsttheNewZealanddollarfivetimes,whichis45percentofthe
sample. These numbers are not statistically significant, which is why the
seasonalityforthosecurrenciesisessentiallynonexistent.
SUMMER SEASONALITY
July and August are the peak months of summer in the northern hemi-
sphere.Forthecurrencymarkets,thesummerusuallybringslessvolatile
price action as many traders focus on enjoying their vacations. Interest-
inglyenough,thesetwomonthsalsohaveauniquecaseofseasonalityfor
USD/JPYandUSD/CAD.Inbothcurrencypairs,thedollartendstorisein
themonthofJulyandgivebackitsgainsinthemonthofAugust.
This can be seen in Figure 7.4 for USD/JPY. Between 1997 and 2007,
USD/JPYroseinJulyinnineoutof11years,withthebiggestgainin1998
USD/JPY July and August 1997–2007
6%
4.1%
4%
3.3%
3.0%
2.2% 2.3%
1.9%
2%
1.4%
0.7%
0.2% 0.1% 0.2%
0%
–2% –1.4%
–1.7% –1.8%
–2.5% –2.4%
–3.2%
–4%
–4.0% –3.8%
–4.7%
–5.2%
–6% –5.6%
–8%
1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007
July August
FIGURE 7.4 USD/JPYJulyandAugustPerformance1997–2007

P1:JYS
c07 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 17:32 Printer:Yettocome
86 DAYTRADINGANDSWINGTRADINGTHECURRENCYMARKET
andthebiggestlossin1999.Onaverage,overthepast11years,USD/JPY
hasincreased0.5percentinthemonthofJuly.InAugust,however,wesee
that the currency pair dropped nine out of 11 years, with the biggest loss
in2001,whenUSD/JPYdropped5.2percentinonemonth.Asindicatedby
the chart, the move in August was typically larger than the move in July,
withtheaveragelossbeing–2.1percentduringthisperiod.
The seasonality is also very significant in USD/CAD. As indicated in
Figure 7.5, between 1997 and 2007, USD/CAD rose in July in eight out
of 11 years, with the biggest increase in 2002. Including the three nega-
tive months, USD/CAD increased 1.5 percent during that period. What is
most interesting about the data is the fact that the decline in USD/CAD
in 1997, 2004, and 2005 was very small. Therefore, it may be a relatively
low-riskbetthatUSD/CADwillcontinuetoappreciateintheyearsahead
in the month of July. August, however, is slightly different. The U.S. dol-
lar dropped against the Canadian dollar eight out of the past 11 years,
butinthethreeyearsthatthecurrencypairrallied,themoveswerecom-
paratively significant. Nonetheless, the probability is still skewed toward
USD/CAD July and August 1997–2007
5%
4.2%
4.1%
4%
3.5%
3.0% 2.9%
3%
2%
1.3% 1.3%
1.1%
0.7%
1%
0.4%
0.1%
0%
–0.2% –0.1%
–0.2%
–1%
–0.9% –1.0% –1.0%
–1.2%
–1.4%
–1.6%
–2%
–2.5%
–3%
–2.9%
–4%
1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007
July August
FIGURE 7.5 USD/CADJulyandAugustPerformance1997–2007

P1:JYS
c07 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 17:32 Printer:Yettocome
Seasonality—HowItAppliestotheFXMarket 87
weakness forUSD/CADintheeighthmonthoftheyear,withtheaverage
lossbeing–0.7percent.
There are many reasons to explain this seasonality, and one of them
may be tourism. According to 2007 data from the Governmental Of-
fice of Travel and Tourism Industries, Canada is the number-one tourist-
generating country for the United States, followed by Mexico, the United
Kingdom,andJapan.Giventhatsummerisoftenthetimeofyearthatmany
people choose to go on vacations, the performance of the U.S. dollar in
Augustmaybereflectionoftraveltrends.
OTHER CASES OF SEASONALITY
Herearesomeothernoteworthycasesofseasonality.
May
As indicated by Figure 7.6 and Figure 7.7, the U.S. dollar also tends to
strengthen against the Australian and New Zealand dollars in the month
AUD/USD May Performance 1997–2007
6%
5.1%
4.1%
4%
2%
0%
–0.3%
–1.0% –0.9%
–1.2%
–2%
–1.8%
–2.2%
–2.7%
–3.3%
–4%
–4.3%
–6%
1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007
FIGURE 7.6 AUD/USDMayPerformance1997–2007

P1:JYS
c07 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 17:32 Printer:Yettocome
88 DAYTRADINGANDSWINGTRADINGTHECURRENCYMARKET
NZD/USD May Performance 1997–2007
8%
6.6%
6%
4%
2.8%
2%
1.0%
0%
–0.6% –0.5% –0.5%
–1.1%
–2%
–4%
–3.7% –3.7%
–4.6%
–6%
–6.1%
–8%
1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007
FIGURE 7.7 NZD/USDMayPerformance1997–2007
ofMay.FortheAUD/USD,thecurrencypairmanagedtoendthemonthof
Mayhigheronlytwooutofthepast11years.TheNZD/USDfaredslightly
better, having managed to end in positive territory three out of the past
11years.
September
A strong case of seasonality can also be seen in the USD/CHF and the
GBP/USDinthemonthofSeptember.(SeeFigure7.8.)Thedominanttrend
duringthatmonthisdollarweakness,andforbothcurrencypairs,thedol-
larweakenednineoutofthepast11years.Itisalsomostlikelynotacoin-
cidencethatthetwoyearsthedollarstrengthened(2005and2006)arethe
same for both currency pairs. There is some seasonality in the EUR/USD
as well, but it is not as significant: In the month of September, the dollar
fellagainsttheeuroeightoutofthepast11years.

P1:JYS
c07 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 17:32 Printer:Yettocome
Seasonality—HowItAppliestotheFXMarket 89
September Seasonality 1997–2007
6%
5.2%
4%
3.2%
2.7%
2.0% 1.6%
2% 1.4% 1.4%
1.0% 1.1%
0.5%
0.3%
0%
–0.9%
–1.2% –1.4%
–2% –1.6% –1.7%
–2.3%
–2.8%
–4%–3.2%
–3.9% –3.8%
–6%
–6.1%
–8%
1197 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007
USD/CHF GBP/USD
FIGURE 7.8 USD/CHFandGBP/USDSeptemberPerformance1997–2007
November
The final case of strong seasonality can be found in the month of
November. Although not as statistically significant as the seasonality in
the months of May and September, the New Zealand dollar has managed
toappreciateagainst theU.S.dollareightoutofthepast11years.Onav-
erage, the appreciation was 1.9 percent, which for the most part is fairly
significant.(SeeFigure7.9.)
INCORPORATING SEASONALITY INTO
YOUR TRADING
ThebestwaytoincorporateseasonalityintoyourFXtradingistobesimply
mindfulofit.Forexample,itmaybebettertolookforopportunitiestobuy

P1:JYS
c07 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 17:32 Printer:Yettocome
90 DAYTRADINGANDSWINGTRADINGTHECURRENCYMARKET
NZD/USD November Performance 1997–2007
5%
4.3%
4% 4.1% 3.9%
3%
2.5%
2.0%
2%
1.4%
1%
0.4%
0.2%
0%
–0.5%
–1% –0.7%
–1.4%
–2%
1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007
FIGURE 7.9 NZD/USDNovemberPerformance1997–2007
theNZD/USDinthemonthofNovemberthantosellit.Seasonaltradesdo
notalwaysduplicatethemselves,whichiswhytradingseasonalityblindly
by buying at the beginning of the month and selling it at the end of the
monthmaynotbethebestthingtodo,butwhatseasonalitydoesteachus
iswheretheprobabilitiesareskewed.

P1:JYS
c08 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 19:22 Printer:Yettocome
C H A P T E R 8
Trade
Parameters for
Different Market
Conditions
A
fterhavinggonethroughtheemergenceoftheforeignexchangemar-
ket,whothemajorplayersare,significanthistoricalmilestones,and
what moves the markets, it is time to cover some of my favorite
strategiesfortradingcurrencies.However,beforeIevenbegingoingover
thesestrategies,themostimportantfirststepforanytrader,regardlessof
themarketthatyouaretradingin,istocreateatradingjournal.
KEEPING A TRADING JOURNAL
Through my experience, I have learned that being a successful trader is
not about finding the holy grail of indicators that can perfectly forecast
movements 100 percent of the time, but instead to develop discipline. I
cannot overemphasize the importance of keeping a trading journal as the
primaryfirststeptobecomingasuccessfulandprofessionaltrader.While
workingontheinterbankFXtradingdeskatJ.P.Morganandthenonthe
cross-markets trading desk after the merger with Chase, the trading jour-
nalmentalitywasingrainedintothemindsofeverydealerandproprietary
traderonthetradingfloors,regardlessofrank.Thereasonwassimple:the
bank was providing the capital for trading and we needed to be held ac-
countable, especially since each transaction involved millions of dollars.
Foreverytradethatwasexecuted,weneededtohaveasolidrationaleas
well as justification for the choice of entry and exit levels. More specifi-
cally,youhadtoknowwheretoplaceyourexitpointsbeforeyouplaced
thetradetoapproximateworst-caselossesandtomanagerisk.
91

P1:JYS
c08 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 19:22 Printer:Yettocome
92 DAYTRADINGANDSWINGTRADINGTHECURRENCYMARKET
With this sort of accountability, the leading banks of the world are
able to breed successful and professional traders. For individual traders,
this practice is even more important because you are trading with your
ownmoneyandnotsomeoneelse’s.Forinterbanktraders,whenitcomes
down to the bottom line, it is someone else’s money that they are trad-
ingwithandregardlessofhowpoorlytheymighthaveperformedoverthe
priortwoweeks,theywillstillbereceivingapaychecktwiceamonth.At
a bank, traders have plenty of time to make the money back without any
disruptions to their daily way of life—unless of course they lose $1 mil-
lioninoneday.Asanindividualtraderyoudonothavethisluxury.When
you are trading with your own money, each dollar earned or lost is your
money.Therefore,eventhoughyoushouldbetradingonlywithriskcapi-
tal,ormoneythatwouldnototherwisebeusedforrentorgroceries,one
way or the other, the pain is felt. To avoid repeating the same mistakes
andtakinglargelosses,Icannotstressenoughtheimportanceofkeepinga
tradingjournal.Thejournalisdesignedtoensurethatasatraderyoutake
onlycalculatedlossesandyoulearnfromeachoneofyourmistakes.The
tradingjournalsetupthatIrecommendisbrokenupintothreeparts:
1. CurrencyPairChecklist.
2. TradesThatIAmWaitingFor.
3. ExistingorCompletedTrades.
Currency Pair Checklist
Thefirstsectionofyourtradingjournalshouldconsistofaspreadsheetthat
canbeprintedoutandcompletedeveryday.Thispurposeofthischecklist
istogetafeelforthemarketandtoidentifytrades.Itshouldlistallofthe
currencypairsthatareofferedfortradingintheleftcolumn,followedby
three columns for the current, high, and low prices and then a series of
triggers laid out as a row on the right-hand side. Newer traders probably
wanttostartoffwithfollowingonlythefourmajorcurrencypairs,which
aretheEUR/USD,USD/JPY,USD/CHF,andGBP/USD,andthengradually
add in the crosses. Although the checklist that I have created is fairly de-
tailed,Ifindthatitisaveryusefuldailyexerciseandshouldtakenomore
than20minutestocompleteoncetheappropriateindicatorsaresavedon
the charts. The purpose of this checklist is to get a clear visual of which
currencies are trending and which are range trading. Comprehending the
big picture is the first step to trading successfully. Too often I have seen
traders fail because they lose sight of the overall environment that they
are trading in. The worst thing to do is to trade blindly. Trying to pick
tops or bottoms in a strong trend or buying breakouts in a range-bound

P1:JYS
c08 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 19:22 Printer:Yettocome
TradeParametersforDifferentMarketConditions 93
environmentcanleadtosignificantlosses.YoucanseeinFigure8.1ofthe
EUR/USDthattryingtopicktopsinthispairwouldhaveledtomorethan
three years of frustrating and unsuccessful trading. For trending environ-
ments,traderswillfindahighersuccessratebybuyingonretracementsin
anuptrendorsellingonralliesinadowntrend.Pickingtopsandbottoms
shouldbeastrategythatisusedonlyinclearrange-tradingenvironments,
and even then traders need to be careful of contracting ranges leading to
breakoutscenarios.
A simplified version of the daily market overview sheet that I use is
showninTable8.1.Asyoucanseeinthetable,thefirsttwocolumnsafter
thedailyhighandlowpricesarethelevelsofthe10-dayhighandlow.List-
ingthesepriceshelpstoidentifywherecurrentpricesarewithinprevious
price action. This helps traders gauge whether we are pressing toward a
10-dayhighorloworifwearesimplytrappedinthemiddleoftherange.
Yetjustthepricesalonedonotprovideenoughinformationtodetermine
ifweareinatrendingorarange-boundenvironment.Thenextfiveindica-
torsprovideachecklistfordeterminingatrendingenvironment.Themore
Xmarksinthissection,thestrongerthetrend.
FIGURE 8.1 EUR/USDThree-YearChart
(Source:www.eSignal.com)

P1:JYS
c08 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 19:22 Printer:Yettocome
tsilkcehCycnerruC
1.8ELBAT
TSEMA03:7–5002,03hcraM
egnaR
gnidnerT
scitsahcotS
scitsahcotS
)41(ISR
)41(ISR
)41(XDA
sessorC
sessorCsessorC
sessorC
)41(XDA
yad-01
yad-01
yliaD
yliaD
tnerruC
ycnerruC
03
<
07
>
nahtsseL
retaerG
52woleb
yad-002
yad-001
yad-05regnilloB
52evoba
woL
hgiH
woL
hgiH
ecirP
riaP
X
6782.1
0523.1
8992.1
5723.1
0503.1
DSU/RUE
X
X
X
X
5398.1
0619.1
0019.1
0619.1
0519.1
DSU/PBG
X
54.601
YPJ/DSU
5581.1
FHC/DSU
6217.0
DSU/DUA
0517.0
DSU/DZN
5791.1
DAC/DSU YPJ/RUE PBG/RUE FHC/RUE YPJ/DUA YPJ/FHC YPJ/PBG FHC/PBG DAC/DUA DAC/RUE DZN/DUA
94

P1:JYS
c08 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 19:22 Printer:Yettocome
TradeParametersforDifferentMarketConditions 95
Thefirstcolumninthetrendingindicatorgroupisthe“ADX(14)above
25.” ADX is the Average Directional Index, which is the most popularly
used indicator for determining the strength of a trend. If the index is
above25,thisindicatesthatatrendhasdeveloped.Generallyspeaking,the
greaterthenumber,thestrongerthetrend.ThenextcolumnusesBollinger
bands.Whenstrongtrendsdevelop,thepairwillfrequentlytagandcrossei-
thertheupperorlowerBollingerband.Thenextthreetrendindicatorsare
the longer-term simple moving averages (SMAs). A break above or below
these moving averages may also be indicative of a trending environment.
Withmovingaverages,crossoversinthedirectionofthetrendcanbeused
asafurtherconfirmation.IftherearetwoormoreXsinthissection,traders
shouldbelookingforopportunitiestobuyondipsinanuptrendorsellon
ralliesinadowntrendratherthansellingatthetopandbuyingbackatthe
bottomoftherange.
Thelastsectionofthetradingjournalistherangegroup.Thefirstin-
dicator is once again ADX, but this time, we are looking for ADX below
25, which would suggest that the currency pair’s trend is weak. Next, we
look at the traditional oscillators, the Relative Strength Index (RSI), and
stochastics.IftheADXisweakandthereissignificanttechnicalresistance
above, provided by indicators such as moving averages or Fibonacci re-
tracementlevels,andRSIand/orstochasticsareatoverboughtoroversold
levels,weidentifyanenvironmentthatishighlyconducivetorangetrading.
Of course, the market overview sheet is not foolproof, and just be-
cause you have numerous X marks in either the trend group or the range
groupdoesn’tmeanthatatrendwillnotfadeorabreakoutwillnotoccur.
Yetwhatthisspreadsheetwilldoiscertainlypreventtradersfromtrading
blindlyandignoringthebroadermarketconditions.Itwillprovidetraders
withalaunchingpadfromwhichtoidentifytheday’stradingopportunities.
Trades That I Am Waiting For
Thenextsectioninthetradingjournalliststhepossibletradesfortheday.
Basedonaninitialoverviewofthecharts,thissectioniswhereyoushould
listthetradesthatyouarewaitingtomake.Asampleentrywouldbe:
April5,2005
BuyAUD/USDonabreakof0.7850(previousdayhigh).
Stopat0.7800(50-daySMA).
Target 1—0.7925 (38.2% Fibonacci retracement of Nov.–Mar. bull
wave).
Target2—0.8075(upperBollinger).
Target3—10-daytrailinglow.

P1:JYS
c08 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 19:22 Printer:Yettocome
96 DAYTRADINGANDSWINGTRADINGTHECURRENCYMARKET
Therefore, as soon as your entry level is reached, you know exactly
howyouwanttotakeactionandwheretoplaceyourstopsandlimits.Of
course, it is also important to take a quick glance at the market to make
sure that the trading conditions that you were looking for are still intact.
Forexample,ifyouwerelookingforastrongbreakoutwithnoretracement
tooccurattheentrylevel,whenitdoesbreak,youwanttomakesurethat
the scenario that you were looking for plays out. This exercise is used to
helpyoudevelopaplanofactiontotackleyourtradingday.Beforeevery
battle,warriorsregrouptogoovertheplanofattack;intradingyouwant
to have the same mentality. Plan and prepare for the worst-case scenario
andknowyourplanofattackfortheday!
Existing or Completed Trades
Thissectionisdevelopedandusedtoenforcedisciplineandtolearnfrom
your mistakes. At the end of each trading day, it is important to review
thissectiontounderstandwhycertaintradesresultedinlossesandothers
resulted in profits. The purpose of this section is to identify trends. I will
useacompletelyunrelatedexampletoexplainwhythisisimportant.Ona
normalday,mostpeoplewillsubconsciouslyinjectalotof“ums”or“uhs”
into their daily conversation. However, I bet most of these people do not
evenrealizethattheyareevendoingituntilsomeonerecordsoneoftheir
conversationsandplaysitbacktothem.Thisisoneofthewaysthatpro-
fessionalpresentersandnewscasterstraintokickthehabitofusingplace-
holderwords.Havingworkedwithmorethan65,000traders,toooftenhave
Iseenthesetradersrepeatedlymakethesamemistakes.Thiscouldbetak-
ing profits too early, letting losses run, getting emotional about trading,
ignoring economic releases, or getting into a trade prematurely. Having a
recordofprevioustradesislikekeepingarecordingofyourconversations.
Whenyouflipbacktothetradesthatyouhavecompleted,youhaveaper-
fect map of what strategies have or have not been profitable for you. The
reasonwhyajournalissoimportantisbecauseitminimizestheemotional
componentoftrades.Ifrequentlyseenovicetraderstakeprofitsearlybut
letlossesrun.Thefollowingaretwosamplesoftradejournalentriesthat
couldprovidelearningopportunities:
February12,2005
Trade:Short3lotsofEUR/USD@1.3045.
Stop:1.3095(formerall-timehigh).
Target:1.2900.

P1:JYS
c08 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 19:22 Printer:Yettocome
TradeParametersforDifferentMarketConditions 97
Result: Trade closed on Feb. 13, 2005—stopped out of the 3 lots @
1.3150(–105pips).
Comments: Got margin call! EUR/USD broke the all-time high, but I
thoughtitwasgoingtoreverse,anddidnotsticktostop—keptletting
lossesrun,untileventuallymargincallclosedoutallpositions.Noteto
self:Makesuresticktostops!
April3,2005
Trade:Long2lotsofUSD/CAD@1.1945.
Stop:1.1860(strongtechnicalsupport—confluenceof50-daymoving
averageand68%FibonacciretracementofFeb.-Mar.rally).
Target: First lot @ 1.2095 (upper Bollinger and 5 pips shy of 1.2100
psychologicalresistance).
Secondlot@1.2250(formerheadandshoulderssupportturnedresis-
tance,100-daySMA).
Result: Trade closed on Apr. 5, 2005—stopped out of the 2 lots at
1.1860(–85pips).
Comments: USD/CAD did not continue uptrend and was becoming
overbought; I didn’t see that ADX was weakening and falling from
higherlevelsandthattherewasalsoadivergenceinstochastics.Note
toself:Makesuretolookfordivergencesnexttime!
Unlikemanytraders,Ibelievethebesttradesarewhereboththetech-
nicalandfundamentalpicturesaretellingthesamestory.Inlinewiththis
premise,Iprefertostayoutoftradesthatcontradictmyfundamentalout-
look. For example, if there is a bullish formation in both the GBP/USD
and the AUD/USD due to U.S. dollar weakness, but the Bank of England
hasfinishedraisinginterestrates,whiletheReserveBankofAustraliahas
fullintentionsofraisingratestotamethestrengthoftheAustralianecon-
omy,Iwouldmostlikelychoosetoexpressmybearishdollarviewinthe
AUD/USD rather than the GBP/USD. My bias for choosing the AUD/USD
overtheGBP/USDwouldbeevenstrongeriftheAUD/USDalreadyoffered
ahigherinterestratedifferentialthantheGBP/USD.ToooftenhaveIseen
technicals thwarted by fundamentals, so now I always incorporate both
into my trading strategy. I use a combination of technical, fundamental,
andpositioningandamgenerallyalsoatrendfollower.Ialsotypicallyuse
atop-downapproachthatinvolvesthefollowing:
1. FirstIwilltakeanoveralltechnicalsurveyofthemarketandpickthe
currencypairsthathaveretracedtoattractivelevelsforentryinorder
toparticipateinamedium-termtrend.

P1:JYS
c08 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 19:22 Printer:Yettocome
98 DAYTRADINGANDSWINGTRADINGTHECURRENCYMARKET
2. Forcurrencieswithadollarcomponent(i.e.,notthecrosses),Ideter-
mine if my initial technical view for that pair coincides with my fun-
damental view on the dollar as well as my view on how upcoming
U.S. releases may impact trading for the day. The reason why I look
at the dollar specifically is because 90 percent of all currency trades
involvethedollar,whichmakesU.S.fundamentalsparticularlyimpor-
tant.
3. Ifitisacross-currencypairsuchasGBP/JPY,Iwillproceedbydeter-
mining if the technical view coincides with the fundamental outlook
usingFibonacciretracements,ADX,movingaverages,oscillators,and
othertechnicaltools.
4. Then I like to look at positioning using the FXCM Speculative Senti-
mentindextoseeifitsupportsthetrade.
5. If I am left with two equally compelling trade ideas, I will choose the
onewithapositiveinterestratedifferential.
HAVE A TOOLBOX—USE WHAT
WORKS FOR THE CURRENT
MARKET ENVIRONMENT
Onceyouhavecreatedatradingjournal,itistimetofigureoutwhichindi-
catorstouseonyourcharts.Thereasonwhyalotoftradersfailisbecause
theyneglecttorealizethattheirfavoriteindicatorsarenotfoolproof.Buy-
ingwhenstochasticsareinoversoldterritoryandsellingwhentheyarein
overboughtterritoryisastrategythatisusedquiteoftenbyrangetraders
withagreatdealofsuccess,butoncethemarketstopsrangetradingand
begins trending, then relying on stochastics could lead to a tremendous
amount of losses. In order to become consistently profitable, successful
tradersneedtolearnhowtobeadaptable.
One of the most important practices that every trader must under-
stand is to be conscious of the environment that they are trading in. Ev-
ery trader needs to have some sort of checklist that will help them to
classifytheirtradingenvironmentsothattheycandeterminewhetherthe
market is trending or range-bound. Defining trade parameters is one of
the most important disciplines of trading. Too many traders have tried to
pickthetopwithinatrend,onlytowindupwithconsistentlyunprofitable
trades.
Althoughdefiningtradeparametersisimportanttotradersinanymar-
ket (currencies, futures, equities), it is particularly important in the cur-
rencymarketsinceover80percentofthevolumeisspeculativeinnature.

P1:JYS
c08 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 19:22 Printer:Yettocome
TradeParametersforDifferentMarketConditions 99
Thismeansthatcurrenciescanspendaverylongtimeinacertaintrading
environment. Also, the currency market obeys technical analysis particu-
larlywellgivenitslargescaleandnumberofparticipants.
There are basically two types of trading environments, which means
thatatanypointintimeaninstrumentiseitherrangetradingortrending.
The first step every trader needs to take is to define the current trading
environment. The shortest timeframethattradersshould use instepone
isdailycharts,evenifyouaretradingonafive-minutetimeframe.
STEP ONE—PROFILE
TRADING ENVIRONMENT
There are many different ways that traders can determine whether a cur-
rencypairisrangetradingortrending.Ofcourse,manypeopledoitvisu-
ally,buthavingsetruleswillhelptokeeptradersoutoftrendsthatmaybe
fadingortopreventtradersfromgettingintoarangetradeinthemidstofa
possiblebreakout.Table8.2outlinessomeofrulesthatIlookforinorder
toclassifyacurrencypair’stradingenvironment.
Range
Lookfor:
ADX(AverageDirectionalIndex)LessThan20 Theaveragedirec-
tional index is one of the primary technical indicators used to determine
the strength of a trend. When ADX is less than 20, this suggests that the
trend is weak, which is generally characteristic of a range-bound market.
TABLE8.2 Trend/RangeTradingRules
Trade Rules Indicators
Range •ADX<20 Bollingerbands,ADX,options
•Decreasingimpliedvolatility
•Riskreversalsnearchoiceorflipping
betweenfavoringcallsandputs
Trend •ADX>25 Movingaverages,ADX,
•Momentumconsistentwith options,momentum
trenddirection
•Riskreversalsstronglybidfor
putorcall

P1:JYS
c08 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 19:22 Printer:Yettocome
100 DAYTRADINGANDSWINGTRADINGTHECURRENCYMARKET
AnADXlessthan20andtrendingdownwardprovidesafurtherconfirma-
tionthatthetrendnotonlyisweak,butwillprobablystayinarangetrading
environmentforawhilelonger.
Decreasing Implied Volatility There are many ways to analyze
volatility. What I like to do is actually track short-term versus long-term
volatility. When short-term volatility is falling, especially after a burst
above long-term volatility, it is usually indicative of a reversion to range
tradingscenarios.Volatilityusuallyblowsoutwhenacurrencypairexpe-
riences sharp, quick moves. It contracts when ranges are narrow and the
trading is very quiet in the markets. The lazy man’s version of the way I
track volatility is Bollinger bands, which provide a fairly decent measure
for determining volatility conditions. A narrow Bollinger band suggests
thatrangesaresmallandthereislowvolatilityinthemarkets,whilewide
Bollinger bands are reflective of large ranges and a highly volatile envi-
ronment.Inarangetradingenvironment,wearelookingforfairlynarrow
Bollinger bands ideally in a horizontal formation similar to the USD/JPY
chartinFigure8.2.
Risk Reversals Flipping between Calls and Puts Ariskreversal
consistsofapairofoptions,acallandaput,onthesamecurrency.Riskre-
versalshaveboththesameexpiration(onemonth)andthesamesensitivity
FIGURE 8.2 USD/JPYBollingerBandChart
(Source:www.eSignal.com)

P1:JYS
c08 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 19:22 Printer:Yettocome
TradeParametersforDifferentMarketConditions 101
TABLE8.3 RiskReversals
14:40GMTApril19th
1Monthto1YearRiskReversal
Currency 1MR/R 3MR/R 6MR/R 1YRR/R
USD/JPY 0.3/0.6JC 0.7/1.0JC 1.1/1/3JC 1.3/1.6JC
EUR/USD 0.1/0.3EC 0.0/0.3EC 0.0/0.3EC 0.1/0.4EC
GBP/USD 0.0/0.3SP 0.0/0.3SC 0.0/0.3SC 0.0/0.3SC
USD/CHF 0.2/0.2CC 0.0/0.3CC 0.0/0.4CC 0.1/0.5CC
JC=JapaneseYenCall
EC=EuroCall
SP=SterlingPut
SC=SterlingCall
CC=SwissCall
to the underlying spot rate. They are quoted in terms of the difference in
volatility between the two options. While in theory these options should
have the same implied volatility, in practice these volatilities often differ
inthemarket.Riskreversalscanbeseenashavingamarketpollingfunc-
tion.Anumberstronglyinfavorofcallsorputsindicatesthatthemarket
preferscallsover puts.Thereverseistrueifthenumber isstronglyinfa-
vor of puts versus calls. Thus, risk reversals can be used as a substitute
forgaugingpositionsintheFXmarket.Inanidealenvironment,farout-of-
the-moneycallsandputsshouldhavethesamevolatility.However,thisis
rarelythecasesincethereisgenerallyasentimentbiasinthemarketsthat
is reflected in risk reversals. In range-bound environments, risk reversals
tendtoflipbetweenfavoringcallsandputsatnearlyzero(orequal),indi-
catingthatthereisindecisionamongbullsandbearsandthereisnostrong
biasinthemarkets.
What Does a Risk Reversal Table Look Like? According to the
risk reversals shown in Table 8.3, we can see that the market is strongly
favoringyencalls(JC)anddollarputsoverthelongterm.EUR/USDshort-
termriskreversalsarenearzero,whichiswhatyouarelookingforwhen
profiling a range-bound environment. The most readily available free re-
sourcethatIknowofforup-to-dateriskreversalsistheIFRnewsplug-in
whichcanbefoundontheFXTradingStationatwww.fxcm.com.
Trend
Lookfor:

P1:JYS
c08 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 19:22 Printer:Yettocome
102 DAYTRADINGANDSWINGTRADINGTHECURRENCYMARKET
ADX (Average Directional Index) Greater Than 20 Asmentioned
earlierwhenwetalkedaboutrangetradingconditions,theAverageDirec-
tional Index is one of the primary technical indicators used to determine
thestrengthofatrend.Inatrendingenvironment,welookforADXtobe
greaterthan25andrising.However,ifADXisgreaterthan25butsloping
downward,especiallyoffoftheextreme40level,youhavetobecarefulof
aggressive trend positioning since the downward slope may indicate that
thetrendiswaning.
Momentum Consistent with Trend Direction Inadditiontousing
ADX, I also recommend looking for a confirmation of a trending environ-
ment through momentum indicators. Traders should look for momentum
tobeconsistentwiththedirectionofthetrend.Mostcurrencytraderswill
look for oscillators to point strongly in the direction of the trend. For ex-
ample,inanuptrend,trendtraderswilllookforthemovingaverages,RSI,
stochastics, and moving average convergence/divergence (MACD) to all
point strongly upward. In a downtrend, they will look for these same in-
dicators to point downward. Some currency traders use the momentum
index, but only to a lesser extent. One of the strongest momentum indi-
cators is a perfect order in moving averages. A perfect order is when the
movingaverageslineupperfectly;thatis,foranuptrend,the10-daySMA
isgreaterthanthe20-daySMA,whichisgreaterthanthe50-daySMA.The
100-daySMAandthe200-daySMAarebelowtheshorter-termmovingav-
erages. In a downtrend, a perfect order would be when the shorter-term
movingaveragesstackupbelowthelonger-termmovingaverages.
Options (Risk Reversals) Withatrendingenvironment,wearelook-
ingforriskreversalstostronglyfavorcallsorputs.Whenonesideofthe
marketisladenwithinterest,itisusuallyindicativeofastronglytrending
environmentorthatacontra-trendmovemaybebrewingifriskreversals
areatextremelevels.
STEP TWO—DETERMINE TRADING
TIME HORIZON
Once you have determined that a currency pair is either range-bound or
trending, it is time to determine how long you plan on holding the trade.
The following is a set of guidelines and indicators that I use for trading
differenttimeframes.Notalloftheguidelinesneedtobemet,butthemore
guidelinesthataremet,themoresolidthetradingopportunity.

P1:JYS
c08 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 19:22 Printer:Yettocome
TradeParametersforDifferentMarketConditions 103
Intraday Range Trade
Rules
1. Usehourlychartstodetermineentrypointsanddailychartstoconfirm
thatarangetradeexistsonalongertimeframe.
2. Useoscillatorstodetermineentrypointwithinrange.
3. Lookforshort-datedriskreversalstobenearchoice.
4. Lookforreversalinoscillators(RSIorstochasticsatextremepoint).
5. Itisastrongertradewhenpricesfailatkeyresistanceorholdkeysup-
portlevels(useFibonacciretracementpointsandmovingaverages).
Indicators Stochastics, MACD, RSI, Bollinger bands, options, Fi-
bonacciretracementlevels.
Medium-Term Range Trade
Rules
1. Usedailycharts.
2. Therearetwowaystorangetradeinthemediumterm:positionforup-
comingrangetradingopportunitiesorgetinvolvedinexistingranges:
Upcomingrangeopportunities:Lookforhigh-volatilityenvironments,
where short-term implied volatilities are significantly higher than
longer-termvolatilities;seekreversionbacktothemeanenvironments.
Existingranges:UseBollingerbandstoidentifyexistingranges.
3. LookforreversalsinoscillatorssuchasRSIandstochastics.
4. MakesureADXisbelow25andideallyfalling.
5. Lookformedium-termriskreversalsnearchoice.
6. Confirm with price action—failure at key range resistances and
bouncesonkeyrangesupports(usingtraditionaltechnicalindicators).
Indicators Options, Bollinger bands, stochastics, MACD, RSI, Fi-
bonacciretracementlevels.
Medium-Term Trend Trade
Rules
1. Look for developing trend on daily charts and use weekly charts for
confirmation.

P1:JYS
c08 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 19:22 Printer:Yettocome
104 DAYTRADINGANDSWINGTRADINGTHECURRENCYMARKET
2. Referbacktothecharacteristicsofatrendingenvironment—lookfor
thoseparameterstobemet.
3. Buy breakout/retracement scenarios on key Fibonacci levels or mov-
ingaverages.
4. Lookfornomajorresistancelevelsinfrontoftrade.
5. Lookforcandlestickpatternconfirmation.
6. Lookformovingaverageconfluencetobeonsamesideoftrade.
7. Enteronabreakofsignificanthighorlow.
8. Theidealistowaitforvolatilitiestocontractbeforegettingin.
9. Lookforfundamentalstoalsobesupportiveoftrade—growthandin-
terest rates. You want to see a string of economic surprises or disap-
pointments,dependingondirectionalbias.
Indicators ADX, parabolic stop and reversal (SAR), RSI, Ichimoku
clouds(aJapaneseformation),Elliottwaves,Fibonacci.
Medium-Term Breakout Trade
Rules
1. Usedailycharts.
2. Look for contraction in short-term volatility to a point where it is
sharplybelowlong-termvolatility.
3. Usepivotpointstodeterminewhetherabreakisatruebreakorafalse
break.
4. Lookformovingaverageconfluencestobesupportiveoftrade.
Indicators Bollingerbands,movingaverages,Fibonacci.
RISK MANAGEMENT
Althoughriskmanagementisoneofthesimplertopicstograsp,itseemsto
bethehardesttofollowformosttraders.Toooftenwehaveseentraders
turn winning positions into losing positions and solid strategies result in
lossesinsteadofprofits.Regardlessofhowintelligentandknowledgeable
traders may be about the markets, their own psychology will cause them
tolosemoney.Whatcouldbethecauseofthis?Arethemarketsreallyso
enigmatic that few can profit? Or is there simply a common mistake that
many traders are prone to make? The answer is the latter. And the good

P1:JYS
c08 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 19:22 Printer:Yettocome
TradeParametersforDifferentMarketConditions 105
news is that the problem, while it can be an emotionally and psychologi-
callychallengingone,isultimatelyfairlyeasytograspandsolve.
Most traders lose money simply because they have no understanding
oforplacenoimportanceonriskmanagement.Riskmanagementinvolves
essentially knowing how much you arewillingtoriskandhow muchyou
arelookingtogain.Withoutasenseofriskmanagement,mosttraderssim-
ply hold on to losing positions for an extremely long amount of time, but
takeprofitsonwinningpositionsfartooprematurely.Theresultisaseem-
inglyparadoxicalscenariothatinrealityisalltoocommon:thetraderends
uphavingmorewinningpositionsthanlosingones,butendsupwithaneg-
ative profit/loss (P/L). So, what can traders do to ensure they have solid
risk management habits? There are a few key guidelines that all traders,
regardlessoftheirstrategyorwhattheyaretrading,shouldkeepinmind.
Risk-Reward Ratio
Traders should look to establish a risk-reward ratio for every trade they
place.Inotherwords,theyshouldhaveanideaofhowmuchtheyarewill-
ing to lose, and how much they are looking to gain. Generally, the risk-
rewardratioshouldbeatleast1:2,ifnotmore.Havingasolidrisk-reward
ratio can prevent traders from entering positions that ultimately are not
worththerisk.
Stop-Loss Orders
Traders should also employ stop-loss orders as a way of specifying the
maximumlosstheyarewillingtoaccept.Byusingstop-lossorders,traders
canavoidthecommonpredicamentofbeinginascenariowheretheyhave
manywinningtradesbutasinglelosslargeenoughtoeliminateanytraceof
profitabilityintheaccount.Trailingstopstolockinprofitsareparticularly
useful. A good habit of more successful traders is to employ the rule of
movingyourstoptobreakevenassoonasyourpositionhasprofitedbythe
sameamountthatyouinitiallyriskedthroughthestoporder.Atthesame
time,sometradersmayalsochoosetocloseaportionoftheirposition.
Forthoselookingtoaddtoawinningpositionorgowithatrend,the
best strategy is to treat the new transaction as if it were a new trade of
itsown, independent of thewinning position. Ifyou are going toadd toa
winning position, perform the same analysis of the chart that you would
if you had no position at all. If a trade continues to go in your favor, you
can also close out part of the position while trailing your stop higher on
the remaining lots that you are holding. Try thinking about your risk and
reward on each separate lot that you have bought if they are at different
entrypointsaswell.Ifyoubuyasecondlot50pipsaboveyourfirstentry

P1:JYS
c08 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 19:22 Printer:Yettocome
106 DAYTRADINGANDSWINGTRADINGTHECURRENCYMARKET
point, don’t use the same stop price on both, but manage the risk on the
secondlotindependentlyfromthefirst.
Using Stop-Loss Orders to Manage Risk Giventheimportanceof
moneymanagementtosuccessfultrading,usingthestop-lossorderisim-
perativeforanytraderlookingtosucceedinthecurrencymarket.Thestop-
loss order allows traders to specify the maximum loss they are willing to
accept on any given trade. If the market reaches the rate the trader spec-
ifies in his/her stop-loss order, then the trade will be closed immediately.
Asaresult,usingstop-lossordersallowsyoutoknowhowmuchyouare
riskingatthetimeyouenterthetrade.
Therearetwopartstosuccessfullyusingastop-lossorder:(1)initially
placing the stop at a reasonable level and (2) trailing the stop—meaning
moving it forward toward profitability—as the trade progresses in
yourfavor.
Placing the Stop-Loss Therearetworecommendedwaysofplacing
astop-lossorder.
Two-Day Low Method These volatility-based stops involve placing
your stop-loss order approximately 10 pips below the two-day low of the
pair. For example, if the low on the EUR/USD’s most recent candle was
1.1200 and the previous candle’s low was 1.1100, then the stop should be
placedaround1.1090—10pipsbelowthetwo-daylow—ifatraderislook-
ingtogetlong.
ParabolicStopandReversal(SAR) Anotherformofvolatility-based
stop is the parabolic SAR, an indicator that is found on many currency
trading charting applications. The FX Power Charts, for instance, offer
thisindicator,freelyavailabletoallcoursesubscribers(www.fxcm.com).
Parabolic SAR is a volatility-based indicator that graphically displays a
small dot at the point on the chart where the stop should be placed.
Figure8.3isanexampleofachartwithparabolicSARplacedonit.
There is no magic formula that works best in every situation, but the
followingisanexampleofhowthesestopscouldbeused.Uponentering
alongposition,determinewheresupportisandplaceastop20pipsbelow
support.Forexample,let’ssaythisis60pipsbelowtheentrypoint.
If the trade earns a profit of 60 pips, close half of the position in a
marketorder,thenmovethestopuptotheentrypoint.Atthistime,trailthe
stop60pipsbehindthemovingmarketprice.IftheparabolicSARmovesup
sothatitisabovetheentrypoint,youcouldswitchtousingtheparabolic
SARasthestoplevel.Ofcourse,duringtheday,therecanbeothersignals
that could prompt you to move your stop. If the price breaks through a
newresistancelevel,thatresistancethenbecomessupport.Youcanplace

P1:JYS
c08 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 19:22 Printer:Yettocome
TradeParametersforDifferentMarketConditions 107
astop20pipsbelowthatsupportlevel,evenifitisonly30to40pipsaway
fromthecurrentprice.Theunderlyingprincipleyouhavetouseistofinda
pointtoplaceyourstopwhereyouwouldnolongerwanttobeinthetrade
oncethepricereachesthatlevel.Usuallythestopfallsatapointwherethe
pricegoesbelowsupport.
PSYCHOLOGICAL OUTLOOK
Asidefromemployingproperriskmanagementstrategies,oneoftheother
mostcrucialyetoverlookedelementsofsuccessfultradingismaintaining
a healthy psychological outlook. At the end of the day, traders who are
unabletocopewiththestressofmarketfluctuationswillnotstandthetest
oftime—nomatterhowskilledtheymaybeatthemorescientificelements
oftrading.
Emotional Detachment
Traders must make trading decisions based on strategies independent of
fear and greed. One of the premier attributes good traders have is that
of emotional detachment: while they are dedicated and fully involved in
theirtrades,theyarenotemotionallymarriedtothem;theyacceptlosing,
andmaketheirinvestmentdecisionsonanintellectuallevel.Traderswho
areemotionallyinvolvedintradingoftenmakesubstantialerrors,asthey
FIGURE 8.3 ParabolicSAR
(Source:www.eSignal.com)

P1:JYS
c08 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 19:22 Printer:Yettocome
108 DAYTRADINGANDSWINGTRADINGTHECURRENCYMARKET
tend to whimsically change their strategy after a few losing trades, or
becomeoverlycarefreeafterafewwinningtrades.Agoodtradermustbe
emotionallybalanced,andmustbasealltradingdecisionsonstrategy—not
fearorgreed.
Know When to Take a Break
Inthemidstofalosingstreak,considertakingabreakfromtradingbefore
fearandgreeddominateyourstrategy.
Noteverytradecanbeawinningone.Asaresult,tradersmustbepsy-
chologically capable of coping with losses. Most traders, even successful
ones,gothroughstretchesoflosingtrades.Thekeytobeingasuccessful
trader,though,isbeingabletocomethroughalosingstretchunfazedand
undeterred.Ifyouaregoingthroughabadstretch,itmaybetimetotakea
breakfromtrading.Often,takingafewdaysofffromwatchingthemarket
toclearyourmindcanbethebestremedyforalosingstreak.Continuingto
traderelentlesslyduringatoughmarketconditioncanbreedgreaterlosses
aswellasruinyourpsychologicaltradingcondition.Ultimately,it’salways
better to acknowledge your losses rather than continue to fight through
themandpretendthattheydon’texist.Makenomistakeaboutit:regard-
lessofhowmuchyoustudy,practice,ortrade,therewillbelosingtrades
throughoutyourentirecareer.Thekeyistomakethemsmallenoughthat
you can live to trade another day, while allowing your winning trades to
stayopen.Youcanovercomealotofbadluckwithpropermoneymanage-
ment techniques. This is why we stress a 2:1 reward-to-risk ratio, as well
aswhyIrecommendnotriskingmorethan2percentofyourequityonany
singletrade.
Whetheryouaretradingforex,equities,orfutures,thereare10trading
rulesthatsuccessfultradersshouldliveby:
1. Limityourlosses.
2. Letyourprofitsrun.
3. Keeppositionsizeswithinreason.
4. Knowyourrisk-rewardratio.
5. Beadequatelycapitalized.
6. Don’tfightthetrend.
7. Neveraddtolosingpositions.
8. Knowmarketexpectations.
9. Learnfromyourmistakes—keepatradingjournal.
10. Haveamaximumlossorretracementinprofits.

P1:JYS
c09 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 15:17 Printer:Yettocome
C H A P T E R 9
Technical
Trading
Strategies
MULTIPLE TIME FRAME ANALYSIS
In order to trade successfully on an intraday basis, it is important to be
selective. Trend trading is one of the most popular strategies employed
by global macro hedge funds. Although there are many traders who pre-
fer to range trade, the big profit potentials tend to lie in trades that cap-
ture and participate in big market movements. It was once said by Mark
Boucher, a hedge fund manager of Midas Trust Fund and a former num-
ber one money manager as ranked by Nelson MarketPlace’s World’s Best
Money Managers, that 70 percent of a market’s moves occurs 20 percent
ofthetime.Thismakesmultipletimeframeanalysisparticularlyimportant
because no trader wants to lose sight of the overall big picture. A great
comparison is taking a road trip from Chicago to Florida. There are cer-
tainlygoing tobealotofleftandrightturnsduringtheroadtrip,butthe
driverneedstobeawarethroughoutthewholetripthatheorsheisheaded
south.Intrading,lookingforopportunitiestobuyinanuptrendorsellina
downtrendtendstobemuchmoreprofitablethantryingtopicktopsand
bottoms.
Themostcommonformofmultipletimeframeanalysisistousedaily
charts to identify the overall trend and then to use the hourly charts to
determinespecificentrylevels.
TheAUD/USDchartinFigure9.1isadailychartoftheAustraliandol-
lar against the U.S. dollar. As you can see, the Australian dollar has been
trendinghighersinceJanuary2002.Rangeorcontrariantraderswhocon-
tinuallylookedtopicktopswouldhavebeenfacedwithatleastthreeyears
109

P1:JYS
c09 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 15:17 Printer:Yettocome
110 DAYTRADINGANDSWINGTRADINGTHECURRENCYMARKET
FIGURE 9.1 AUD/USDMultipleTimeFrameDailyChart
(Source:www.eSignal.com)
of unprofitable and difficult trading, particularly when the currency pair
washittingrecordhighsinlate2003intoearly2004.Thisareawouldhave
certainlyattractedmanytraderslookingtopickatoportofadethetrend.
Despite a dip in late 2004, the AUD/USD has remained strong going into
2005,whichwouldhavemadeitverydifficultformedium-termrangeplay-
erstotrade.
Instead, the more effective trading strategy is to actually take a posi-
tioninthedirectionofthetrend.IntheAUD/USDexample,thiswouldhave
involved looking for opportunities to buy on dips. Figure 9.2 is an hourly
chartwithFibonacciretracementsdrawnfromtheFebruary2004all-time
high and the low of June 17, 2004. Rather than looking for opportunities
to sell, we use the 76 percent Fibonacci retracement level as key support
zonestogolongtheAustraliandollar.ThehorizontallineinFigure9.2rep-
resents the Fibonacci retracement level. What we did therefore was use
thedailychartstogetagaugeoftheoveralltrendandthenusedthehourly
chartstopinpointentrylevels.
Let’stakealookatanotherexample,thisoneoftheBritishpound.Fig-
ure9.3isthedailychartoftheGBP/USDforJanuary2002toMay2005.Like
tradersoftheAustraliandollar,traderstryingtopicktopsintheGBP/USD
wouldhavealsofacedatleastthreeyearsofdifficulttrading,particularly
when the GBP/USD was making 10-year highs in January 2004. This level

P1:JYS
c09 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 15:17 Printer:Yettocome
TechnicalTradingStrategies 111
FIGURE 9.2 AUD/USDMultipleTimeFrameHourlyChart
(Source:www.eSignal.com)
FIGURE 9.3 GBP/USDMultipleTimeFrameDailyChart
(Source:www.eSignal.com)

P1:JYS
c09 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 15:17 Printer:Yettocome
112 DAYTRADINGANDSWINGTRADINGTHECURRENCYMARKET
wouldhavecertainlyattractedmanyskepticslookingtopicktops.Tothe
frustrationofthosewhodid,theGBP/USDralliedupto10percentbeyond
its10-yearhighspostJanuary,whichmeansthatthosetoppickerswould
haveincurredsignificantlosses.
TakingalookatthehourlychartfortheGBP/USD,wewanttolookfor
opportunities to buy on dips rather than sell on rallies. Figure 9.4 shows
twoFibonacciretracementlevelsdrawnfromtheSeptember2004andDe-
cember2004bullwave.Thoselevelsheldprettywellonretracementsbe-
tween four-tenths and four-fourteenths while the 23.6 percent Fibonacci
levelofferedanopportunityforbreakout tradingratherthanasignificant
resistancelevel.Inthatparticularscenario,keepinginmindthebiggerpic-
turewouldhaveshieldedtradersfromtryingtoengageinreversalplaysat
thoselevels.
Multiple time frame analysis can also be employed on a shorter-term
basis. Let us take a look at an example using CHF/JPY. First we start
withourhourlychartofCHF/JPY,whichisshowninFigure9.5.UsingFi-
bonacciretracements,weseeonourhourlychartsthatpriceshavefailed
at the 38.2 percent retracement of the December 30, 2004, to February 9,
2005,bearwavenumeroustimes.Thisindicatesthatthepairiscontained
within a weeklong downtrend below those levels. Therefore, we want to
useour15-minutechartstolookforentrylevelstoparticipateintheoverall
FIGURE 9.4 GBP/USDMultipleTimeFrameHourlyChart
(Source:www.eSignal.com)

P1:JYS
c09 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 15:17 Printer:Yettocome
TechnicalTradingStrategies 113
FIGURE 9.5 CHF/JPYMultipleTimeFrameHourlyChart
(Source:www.eSignal.com)
downtrend. However, in order to increase the success of this trade, we
wanttomakesurethatCHF/JPYisalsoinadowntrendonadailybasis.
Taking a look at Figure 9.6, we see that CHF/JPY is indeed trading
below the 200-day simple moving average with the 20-day SMA crossing
below the 100-day SMA. This confirms the bearish momentum in the cur-
rency pair. So as a day trader, we move on to the 15-minute chart to pin-
point entry levels. Figure 9.7 is the 15-minute chart; the horizontal line is
the 38.2 percent Fibonacci retracement of the earlier downtrend. We see
that CHF/JPY broke above the horizontal line on May 11, 2005; however,
ratherthanbuyingintoapotentialbreakouttrade,thebearishbigpicture
reflectedonthehourlyanddailychartssuggestsacontrariantradeatthis
point.Infact,thereweretwoinstancesshowninFigure9.7wherethecur-
rencypairbrokeabovetheFibonaccilevelonlytothentradesignificantly
lower. Disciplined day traders would use those opportunities to fade the
breakout.
The importance of multiple time frame analysis cannot be overesti-
mated.Thinkingaboutthebigpicturefirstwillkeeptradersoutofnumer-
ousdangeroustrades.Themajorityofnewtradersinthemarketarerange
tradersforthesimplefactthatbuyingatthelowandsellingatthehighisan
easyconcepttograsp.Ofcourse,thisstrategydoeswork,buttradersalso
need to be mindful of the trading environment that they are participating
in.LookingbacktoChapter8,tradersshouldtrytorangetradeonlywhen

P1:JYS
c09 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 15:17 Printer:Yettocome
114 DAYTRADINGANDSWINGTRADINGTHECURRENCYMARKET
FIGURE 9.6 CHF/JPYMultipleTimeFrameDailyChart
(Source:www.eSignal.com)
FIGURE 9.7 CHF/JPYMultipleTimeFrame15-MinuteChart
(Source:www.eSignal.com)

P1:JYS
c09 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 15:17 Printer:Yettocome
TechnicalTradingStrategies 115
theconditionsforarange-boundmarketaremet.Themostimportantcon-
dition(butcertainlynottheonlyone)istolookforADXtobelessthan25
andideallytrendingdownward.
FADING THE DOUBLE ZEROS
Oneofthemostwidelyoverlookedyetlucrativeareasoftradingismarket
structure.Developingakeenunderstandingofmicrostructureanddynam-
icsallowstraderstogainanunbelievableadvantageandisprobablyoneof
themostreliabletacticsforprofitingfromintradayfluctuations.Develop-
ingafeelforandunderstandingofmarketdynamicsiskeytoprofitablytak-
ingadvantageofshort-termfluctuations.Inforeignexchangetradingthisis
especiallycritical,astheprimaryinfluenceofintradaypriceactionisorder
flow. Given the fact that most individual traders are not privy to sell-side
bankorderflow,daytraderslookingtoprofitfromshort-termfluctuations
need to learn how to identify and anticipate price zones where large or-
derflowsshouldbetriggered.Thistechniqueisveryefficientforintraday
tradersasitallowsthemtogetonthesamesideasthemarketmaker.
Whentradingintraday,itisimpossibletolookforbouncesoffofevery
supportorresistancelevelandexpecttobeprofitable.Thekeytosuccess-
ful intraday trading requires that we be more selective and enter only at
thoselevelswhereareactionismorelikely.Tradingoffpsychologicallyim-
portantlevelssuchasthedoublezerosorroundnumbersisonegoodway
of identifying such opportunities. Double zeros represent numbers where
thelasttwodigitsarezeros—forexample,107.00intheUSD/JPYor1.2800
in the EUR/USD. After noticing how many times a currency pair would
bounceoffofdoublezerosupportorresistancelevelsintradaydespitethe
underlyingtrend,wehavenoticedthatthebouncesareusuallymuchbig-
gerandmorerelevantthanralliesoffotherareas.Thistypeofreactionis
perfectforintradayFXtradersasitgivesthemtheopportunitytomake50
pipswhileriskingonly15to20pips.
Implementing this methodology is not difficult, but it does require in-
dividualtraderstodevelopasolidfeelfordealingroomandmarketpartic-
ipantpsychology.Theideabehindwhythismethodologyworksissimple.
Largebankswithaccesstoconditionalorderflowhaveaverydistinctad-
vantageoverothermarketparticipants.Thebanks’orderbooksgivethem
directinsightintopotentialreactionsatdifferentpricelevels.Dealerswill
oftenusethisstrategicinformationthemselves toput onshort-termposi-
tionsfortheirownaccounts.
Market participants as a whole tend to put conditional orders near
or around the same levels. While stop-loss orders are usually placed

P1:JYS
c09 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 15:17 Printer:Yettocome
116 DAYTRADINGANDSWINGTRADINGTHECURRENCYMARKET
justbeyondtheroundnumbers,traderswillclustertheirtake-profitorders
attheroundnumber.Thereasonwhythisoccursisbecausetradersarehu-
mansandhumanstendtothinkinroundnumbers.Asaresult,take-profit
ordershaveaveryhightendencyofbeingplacedatthedoublezerolevel.
SincetheFXmarketisanonstopcontinuousmarket,speculatorsalsouse
stop and limit orders much more frequently than in other markets. Large
bankswithaccesstoconditionalorderflow,likestopsandlimits,actively
seek to exploit these clusterings of positions to basically gun stops. The
strategyoffadingthedoublezerosattemptstoputtradersonthesameside
asmarketmakersandbasicallypositionstradersforaquickcontra-trend
moveatthedoublezerolevel.
Thistradeismostprofitablewhenthereareothertechnicalindicators
thatconfirmthesignificanceofthedoublezerolevel.
Strategy Rules
Long
1. First, locate a currency pair that is trading well below its intraday
20-periodsimplemovingaverageona10-or15-minutechart.
2. Next, enter a long position several pips below the figure (no more
than10).
3. Place an initial protective stop no more than 20 pips below the entry
price.
4. Whenthepositionisprofitablebydoubletheamountthatyourisked,
closehalfofthepositionandmoveyourstopontheremainingportion
of the trade to breakeven. Trail your stop as the price moves in your
favor.
Short
1. First, locate a currency pair that is trading well above its intraday
20-periodsimplemovingaverageona10-or15-minutechart.
2. Next, short the currency pair several pips above the figure (no more
than10).
3. Place an initial protective stop no more than 20 pips above the entry
price.
4. Whenthepositionisprofitablebydoubletheamountthatyourisked,
closehalfofthepositionandmoveyourstopontheremainingportion
of the trade to breakeven. Trail your stop as the price moves in your
favor.

P1:JYS
c09 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 15:17 Printer:Yettocome
TechnicalTradingStrategies 117
Market Conditions
Thisstrategyworksbestwhenthemovehappens withoutanymajoreco-
nomicnumberasacatalyst—inotherwords,inquietermarketconditions.
It is used most successfully for pairs with tighter trading ranges, crosses,
andcommoditycurrencies.Thisstrategydoesworkforthemajorsbutun-
derquietermarketconditionssincethestopsarerelativelytight.
Further Optimization
Thepsychologicallyimportantroundnumberlevelshaveevengreatersig-
nificanceiftheycoincidewithakeytechnicallevel.Thereforethestrategy
tendstohaveanevenhigherprobabilityofsuccesswhenotherimportant
support or resistance levels converge at the figure, such as moving aver-
ages,keyFibonaccilevels,andBollingerbands,justtonameafew.
Examples
So let us take a look at some of the examples of this strategy in action.
The first example that we will go over is Figure 9.8, a 15-minute chart
of the EUR/USD. According to the rules of the strategy, we see that the
EUR/USD broke down and was trading well below its 20-period moving
average.Pricescontinuedtotrendlower,movingtoward1.2800,whichis
FIGURE 9.8 EUR/USDDoubleZerosExample
(Source:www.eSignal.com)

P1:JYS
c09 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 15:17 Printer:Yettocome
118 DAYTRADINGANDSWINGTRADINGTHECURRENCYMARKET
our double zero number. In accordance with the rules, we place an entry
orderafewpipsbelowthebreakevennumberat1.2795.Ourorderistrig-
geredandweputourstop20pipsawayat1.2775.Thecurrencypairhitsa
lowof1.2786beforemovinghigher.Wethensellhalfofthepositionwhen
thecurrencypairralliesbydoubletheamountthatweriskedat1.2835.The
stop on the remaining half of the position is then moved to breakeven at
1.2795.Weproceedtotrailthestop.Thetrailingstopcanbedoneusinga
varietyofmethodsincludingamonetaryorpercentagebasis.Wechooseto
trailthestopbyatwo-barlowforareallyshort-termtradeandendupget-
tingoutoftheotherhalfofthepositionat1.2831.Thereforeonthistrade
weearned40pipsonthefirstpositionand36pipsonthesecondposition.
ThenextexampleisforUSD/JPY.InFigure9.9,weseethatUSD/JPY
is trading well below its 20-period moving average on a 10-minute chart
and is headed toward the 105 double zero level. This trade is particularly
strongbecausethe105levelisveryimportantinUSD/JPY.Notonlyisita
psychologicallyimportantlevel,butitalsoservedasanimportantsupport
and resistance level throughout 2004 and into early 2005. The 105 level is
alsothe23.6percentFibonacciretracementoftheMay14,2004,highand
January17,2005,low.Allofthisprovidesastrongsignalthatlotsofspec-
ulators may have taken profit orders at that level and that a contra-trend
tradeisverylikely.Asaresult,weplaceourlimitorderafewpipsbelow
105.00 at 104.95. The trade is triggered and we place our stop at 104.75.
FIGURE 9.9 USD/JPYDoubleZerosExample
(Source:www.eSignal.com)

P1:JYS
c09 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 15:17 Printer:Yettocome
TechnicalTradingStrategies 119
Thecurrencypairhitsalowof104.88beforemovinghigher.Wethensell
half of our position when the currency pair rallies by double the amount
thatweriskedat105.35.Thestopontheremaininghalfofthepositionis
thenmovedtobreakevenat104.95.Weproceedtotrailthestopbyafive-
barlowtofilteroutnoiseontheshortertimeframe.Weendupsellingthe
other half of the position at 105.71. As a result on this trade, we earned
40pipsonthefirstpositionand76pipsonthesecondposition.Thereason
whythissecondtradewasmoreprofitablethantheoneinthefirstexample
isbecausethedoublezerolevelwasalsoasignificanttechnicallevel.
Makingsurethatthedoublezerolevelisasignificantlevelisakeyel-
ementoffilteringforgoodtrades.Thenextexample,showninFigure9.10,
isUSD/CADona15-minutechart.Thegreatthingaboutthistradeisthatit
isatriplezerolevelratherthanjustadoublezerolevel.Triplezerolevels
hold even more significance than double zero levels because of their less
frequent occurrence. In Figure 9.10, we see that USD/CAD is also trading
well below its 20-period moving average and heading toward 1.2000. We
looktogolongafewpipsbelowthedoublezerolevelat1.1995.Weplace
ourstop20pipsawayat1.1975.Thecurrencypairhitsalowof1.1980be-
fore moving higher. We then sell half of our position when the currency
pairralliesbydoubletheamountthatweriskedat1.2035.Thestoponthe
remaining half of the position is then moved to breakeven at 1.1995. We
proceedtotrailthestoponceagainbythetwo-barlowandendupexiting
FIGURE 9.10 USD/CADDoubleZerosExample
(Source:www.eSignal.com)

P1:JYS
c09 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 15:17 Printer:Yettocome
120 DAYTRADINGANDSWINGTRADINGTHECURRENCYMARKET
thesecondhalfofthepositionat1.2081.Asaresult,weearned40pipson
thefirstpositionand86pipsonthesecondposition.Onceagain,thistrade
workedparticularlywellbecause1.2000wasatriplezerolevel.
Althoughtheexamplescoveredinthischapterarealltothelongside,
thestrategyalsoworkstotheshortside.
WAITING FOR THE REAL DEAL
The lack of volume data in the FX market has forced day traders to de-
velopdifferentstrategiesthatrelylessonthelevelofdemandandmoreon
the micro structure of the market. One of the most common characteris-
ticsthatdaytraderstrytoexploitisthemarket’s24-houraround-the-clock
nature. Although the market is open for trading throughout the course of
theday,theextentofmarketactivityduringeachtradingsessioncanvary
significantly.
Traditionally,tradingtendstobethequietestduringtheAsianmarket
hours,asweindicatedinChapter4.Thismeansthatcurrenciessuchasthe
EUR/USDandGBP/USDtendtotradewithinaverytightrangeduringthese
hours.AccordingtotheBankforInternationalSettlements’TriennialCen-
tralBankSurveyoftheFXmarketpublishedinSeptember2004,theUnited
Kingdomisthemostactivetradingcenter,capturing31percentoftotalvol-
ume.AddinginGermany,France,andSwitzerland,Europeantradingasa
whole accounts for 42 percent of total FX trading. The United States, on
theotherhand,issecondonlytotheUnitedKingdomforthetitleofmost
active trading center, but that amounts to only approximately 19 percent
oftotalturnover.ThismakestheLondonopenexceptionallyimportantbe-
causeitgivesthemajorityoftradersinthemarketanopportunitytotake
advantageofeventsorannouncementsthatmayhaveoccurredduringlate
U.S. trading or in the overnight Asian session. This becomes even more
criticalondayswhentheFederalOpenMarketCommittee(FOMC)ofthe
FederalReservemeetstodiscussandannouncemonetarypolicybecause
the announcement occurs at 2:15 p.m. New York time, which is past the
Londonclose.
The British pound trades most actively against the U.S. dollar dur-
ing the European and London trading hours. There is also active trad-
ing during the U.S./European overlap, but besides those time frames, the
pairtendstotraderelativelylightlybecausethemajorityofGBP/USDtrad-
ing is done through U.K. and European market makers. This provides a
greatopportunityfordaytraderstocapturetheinitialdirectionalintraday
realmovethatgenerallyoccurswithinthefirstfewhoursoftradinginthe
London session. This strategy exploits the common perception that U.K.
tradersarenotoriousstophunters.Thismeansthattheinitialmovementat

P1:JYS
c09 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 15:17 Printer:Yettocome
TechnicalTradingStrategies 121
theLondonopenmaynotalwaysbetherealone.SinceU.K.andEuropean
dealersaretheprimarymarketmakersfortheGBP/USD,theyhavetremen-
dousinsightintotheextentofactualsupplyanddemandforthepair.The
trading strategy of waiting for the real deal first sets up when interbank
dealingdeskssurveytheirbooksattheonsetoftradingandusetheirclient
datatotriggerclosestopsonbothsidesofthemarketstogainthepipdif-
ferential. Once these stops are taken out and the books are cleared, the
real directional move in the GBP/USD will begin to occur, at which point
welookfortherulesofthisstrategytobemetbeforeenteringintoalong
orshortposition.ThisstrategyworksbestfollowingtheU.S.openorafter
a major economic release. With this strategy you are looking to wait for
thenoiseinthemarketstosettledownandtotradetherealmarketprice
actionafterward.
Strategy Rules
Long
1. EarlyEuropeantradinginGBP/USDbeginsaround1:00a.m.NewYork
time. Look for the pair to make a new range low of at least 25 pips
above the opening price (the range is defined as the price action be-
tweentheFrankfurtandLondonpowerhourof1a.m.NewYorktime
to2a.m.NewYorktime).
2. Thepairthenreversesandpenetratesthehigh.
3. Placeanentryordertobuy10pipsabovethehighoftherange.
4. Placeaprotectivestopnomorethan20pipsawayfromyourentry.
5. If the position moves lower by double the amount that you risked,
coverhalfandtrailastopontheremainingposition.
Short
1. GBP/USDopensinEuropeandtradesmorethan25pipsabovethehigh
oftheFrankfurtandLondonpowerhour.
2. Thepairthenreversesandpenetratesthelow.
3. Placeanentryordertosell10pipsbelowthelowoftherange.
4. Placeaprotectivestopnomorethan20pipsawayfromyourentry.
5. If the position moves lower by double the amount that you risked,
coverhalfandtrailastopontheremainingposition.
Examples
Let us go ahead and take a look at some examples of this strategy in ac-
tion. Figure 9.11 is a textbook example of the strategy of waiting for the
real deal. We see that the GBP/USD breaks upward on the London open,

P1:JYS
c09 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 15:17 Printer:Yettocome
122 DAYTRADINGANDSWINGTRADINGTHECURRENCYMARKET
FIGURE 9.11 GBP/USDMay2005RealDealExample
(Source:www.eSignal.com)
reaching a high of 1.8912 approximately two hours into trading. The cur-
rency pair then begins to trend lower ahead of the U.S. market open and
wepositionforthetradebyputtinganentryordertoshort10pipsbelow
theFrankfurtopentotheLondonopenrangeof1.8804at1.8794.Ourstop
isthenplaced20pipshigherat1.8814,whileourtake-profitorderisplaced
at1.8754,whichisdoubletheamountrisked.Oncethetake-profitorderon
the first lot is fulfilled, we move the stop to breakeven at 1.8794 and trail
thestopbythetwo-barhigh.Thesecondloteventuallygetsstoppedoutat
1.8740,andweendupearning40pipsonthefirstpositionand54pipson
thesecondposition.
ThenextexampleisshowninFigure9.12.Inthisexample,wealsosee
theGBP/USDbreakupwardontheLondonopen,reachingahighof1.8977
rightattheU.S.open.Thecurrencypairthenbeginstotrendlowerduring
the early U.S. session, breaking the Frankfurt open to the London open
range low of 1.8851. Our entry point is 10 pips below that level at 1.8841.
Our short position is triggered, and we place our stop 20 pips higher at
1.8861andthefirsttake-profitlevelat1.8801,whichisdoubletheamount
risked.Onceourlimitorderistriggered,wemovethestoptobreakevenat
1.8841andtrailthestopbythetwo-barhigh.Thesecondlotgetsstopped
out at 1.8789, and we end up earning 40 pips on the first position and 52
pipsonthesecondposition.
The third example is shown in Figure 9.13. In this example, we also
see the GBP/USD break upward on the London open, reaching a high of

P1:JYS
c09 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 15:17 Printer:Yettocome
TechnicalTradingStrategies 123
FIGURE 9.12 GBP/USDApril2005RealDealExample
(Source:www.eSignal.com)
FIGURE 9.13 GBP/USDMarch2005RealDealExample
(Source:www.eSignal.com)

P1:JYS
c09 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 15:17 Printer:Yettocome
124 DAYTRADINGANDSWINGTRADINGTHECURRENCYMARKET
1.9023rightbeforetheU.S.FOMCmeeting.Thecurrencypairthenbreaks
lower on the back of the meeting, penetrating the Frankfurt open to the
London open range low of 1.8953. Our entry order is already placed 10
pips below that level at 1.8943. Our short position is triggered and we
place our stop 20 pips higher at 1.8963 and the first take-profit level at
1.8903, which is double the amount risked. Once our limit order is trig-
gered, we move the stop to breakeven at 1.8943 and trail the stop by
the two-bar high. The second lot gets stopped out at 1.8853, and we
end up earning 40 pips on the first position and 90 pips on the second
position.
INSIDE DAY BREAKOUT PLAY
Throughoutthisbook,volatilitytradinghasbeenemphasizedasoneofthe
mostpopularstrategiesemployedbyprofessionaltraders.Therearemany
waystointerpretchangesinvolatilities,butoneofthesimpleststrategiesis
actuallyavisualoneandrequiresnothingmorethanakeeneye.Although
thisisa strategy that is very popular intheworld of professional trading,
new traders are frequently amazed by its ease, accuracy, and reliability.
Breakout traders can identify inside days with nothing more than a basic
candlestickchart.
Aninsidedayisdefinedasadaywherethedailyrangehasbeencon-
tained within the prior day’s trading range, or, in other words, the day’s
highandlowdonotexceedthepreviousday’shighandlow.Thereneedto
be at least two inside days before the volatility play can be implemented.
Themoreinsidedays,thehigherthelikelihoodofanupsidesurgeinvolatil-
ity,orabreakoutscenario.Thistypeofstrategyisbestemployedondaily
charts,butthelongerthetimeframe,themoresignificantthebreakoutop-
portunity.Sometradersusetheinsidedaystrategyonhourlycharts,which
does work to some success, but identifying inside days on daily charts
tends to lead to an even greater probability of success. For day traders
looking for inside days on hourly charts, chances of a solid breakout in-
crease if the contraction precedes the London or U.S. market opens. The
key is to predict a valid breakout and not get caught in a false breakout
move.Tradersusingthedailychartscouldlookforbreakoutsaheadofma-
jor economic releases for the specific currency pair. This strategy works
with all currencies pairs, but has less frequent instances of false break-
outsinthetighterrangepairssuchastheEUR/GBP,USD/CAD,EUR/CHF,
EUR/CAD,andAUD/CAD.

P1:JYS
c09 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 15:17 Printer:Yettocome
TechnicalTradingStrategies 125
Strategy Rules
Long
1. Identify a currency pair where the daily range has been contained
within the prior day’s range for at least two days (we are looking for
multipleinsidedays).
2. Buy10pipsabovethehighofthepreviousinsideday.
3. Place a stop and reverse order for two lots at least 10 pips below the
lowofthenearestinsideday.
4. Take profit when prices reach double the amount risked or begin to
trailthestopatthatlevel.
Protect against false breakouts:Ifthestopandreverseorderistriggered,
place a stop at least 10 pips above the high of the nearest inside day and
protectanyprofitslargerthanwhatyouriskedwithatrailingstop.
Short
1. Identify a currency pair where the daily range has been contained
within the prior day’s range for at least two days (we are looking for
multipleinsidedays).
2. Sell10pipsbelowthelowofthepreviousinsideday.
3. Place a stop and reverse order for two lots at least 10 pips above the
highofthenearestinsideday.
4. Take profit when prices reach double the amount risked or begin to
trailthestopatthatlevel.
Protect against false breakouts:Ifthestopandreverseorderistriggered,
place a stop at least 10 pips below the low of the nearest inside day and
protectanyprofitslargerthanwhatyouriskedwithatrailingstop.
Further Optimization
Forfurtheroptimization,technicalformationscanbeusedinconjunction
withthevisualidentificationtoplaceahigherweightonaspecificdirection
ofthebreakout.Forexample,iftheinsidedaysarebuildingandcontract-
ing toward the top of a recent range such as a bullish ascending triangle
formation,thebreakouthasahigherlikelihoodofoccurringtotheupside.
Theoppositescenarioisalsotrue:ifinsidedaysarebuildingandcontract-
ingtowardthebottomofarecentrangeandwebegintoseethatabearish

P1:JYS
c09 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 15:17 Printer:Yettocome
126 DAYTRADINGANDSWINGTRADINGTHECURRENCYMARKET
descending triangle is in formation, the breakout has a higher likelihood
ofoccurringtothedownside.Asidefromtriangles,othertechnicalfactors
that can be considered include significant support and resistance levels.
For example, if there are significant Fibonacci and moving average sup-
portzonesrestingbelowtheinsidedaylevels,thisindicateseitherahigher
likelihoodofanupsidebreakoutoratleastahigherprobabilityofafalse
breakouttothedownside.
Examples
Letustakealookatafewexamples.Figure9.14isadailychartoftheeuro
againsttheBritishpound,ortheEUR/GBP.Thetwoinsidedaysareidenti-
fiedonthechartanditisclearvisuallythatbothofthosedays’ranges,in-
cludingthehighsandlows,arecontainedwithinthepreviousday’srange.
In accordance with our rules, we place an order to go long 10 pips above
the high of the previous inside day at 0.6634 and an order to sell 10 pips
below the low of the previous inside day at 0.6579. Our long order gets
triggered two bars after the most recent inside day. We then proceed to
place a stop and reverse order 10 pips below the low of the most recent
inside day at 0.6579. So basically, we went long at 0.6634 with a stop at
0.6579, which means that we are risking 45 pips. When prices reach our
targetlevelofdoubletheamountrisked(90pips)or0.6724,wehave two
FIGURE 9.14 EUR/GBPInsideDayChart
(Source:www.eSignal.com)

P1:JYS
c09 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 15:17 Printer:Yettocome
TechnicalTradingStrategies 127
choices—eitherclose out theentiretradeorbegin trailingthestop. More
conservativetradersshouldprobablysquarepositionsatthispoint,while
moreaggressivetraderscouldlookformoreprofitpotential.Wechooseto
closeoutthetradefora90-pipprofit,butthosewhostayedinandweath-
ered a bit of volatility could have taken advantage of another 100 pips of
profitsthreeweekslater.
Figure9.15isanotherexampleofinsidedaytrading,thistimeusingthe
daily chart of the New Zealand dollar against the U.S. dollar (NZD/USD).
Thedifferencebetweenthisexampleandthepreviousoneisthatourstop
andreverseorderactuallygetstriggered,indicatingthatthefirstmovewas
a false breakout. The two inside days are labeled on the chart. In accor-
dance with our rules, after identifying the inside days, we place an order
to buy on the break of the high of the previous inside day and an order
to sell on the break of the low of the previous inside day. The high on
the first or previous inside day is 0.6628. We place an order to go long at
0.6638 or to go short at 0.6618. Our long order gets triggered on the first
day of the break at 0.6638 and we place a stop and reverse order 10 pips
belowthelowofthemostrecentinsideday(orthedailycandlebeforethe
breakout), which is 0.6560. However, instead of continuing the breakout,
thepairreversesandwecloseourfirstpositionat0.6560witha78-piploss.
We then enter into a new short position with the reverse order at 0.6560.
Thenewstopisthen10pipsabovethehighofthemostrecentinsidedayat
FIGURE 9.15 NZD/USDInsideDayChart
(Source:www.eSignal.com)

P1:JYS
c09 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 15:17 Printer:Yettocome
128 DAYTRADINGANDSWINGTRADINGTHECURRENCYMARKET
0.6619.WhenNZD/USDmovesbydoubletheinitialamountrisked,conser-
vativetraderscantakeprofitontheentirepositionwhileaggressivetraders
cantrailthestopusingvariousmethods,whichmaybedependentonhow
wide the trading range is. In this example, since the daily trading range
isfairlywide, wechoose toclose theposition once the pricereaches our
limitof0.6404foraprofitof156pipsandatotalprofitontheentiretradeof
78pips.
Thefinalexampleusestechnicalstohelpdetermineadirectionalbias
of the inside day breakout. Figure 9.16 is a daily chart of EUR/CAD. The
insidedaysareonceagainidentifieddirectlyonthechart.Thepresenceof
higher lows suggests that the breakout could very well be to the upside.
Adding in the MACD histogram to the bottom of the chart, we see that
the histogram is also in positive territory right when the inside days are
forming.Assuch,wechoosetooptforanupsidebreakouttradebasedon
technicalindicators.Inaccordancewiththerules,wegolong10pipsabove
thehighofthepreviousinsidedayat1.6008.Ourshorttradegetstriggered
first, but then our stop and reverse order kicks in. Our long trade is then
triggered and we place our new stop order 10 pips below the low of the
mostrecentinsidedayat1.5905.Whenpricesmovebydoubletheamount
thatweriskedto1.6208,weexittheentirepositionfora200-pipprofit.
Withtheinsidedaybreakoutstrategy,theriskisgenerallyprettyhigh
ifdoneondailycharts,buttheprofitpotentialsfollowingthebreakoutare
FIGURE 9.16 EUR/CADInsideDayChart
(Source:www.eSignal.com)

P1:JYS
c09 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 15:17 Printer:Yettocome
TechnicalTradingStrategies 129
usually fairly large as well. More aggressive traders can also trade more
thanoneposition,whichwouldallowthemtolockinprofitsonthefirsthalf
of the position when prices move by double the amount risked and then
trail the stop on the remaining position. Generally these breakout trades
are precursors to big trends, and using trailing stops would allow traders
toparticipateinthetrendmovewhilealsobankingsomeprofits.
THE FADER
More often than not, traders will find themselves faced with a potential
breakout scenario, position for it, and then only end up seeing the trade
fail miserably and have prices revert back to range trading. In fact, even
if prices do manage to break out above a significant level, a continuation
move is not guaranteed. If this level is very significant, we frequently see
interbank dealers or other traders try to push prices beyond those levels
momentarilyinordertorunstops.Breakoutlevelsareverysignificantlev-
els,andforthisveryreasonthereisnohard-and-fastruleastohowmuch
forceisneededtocarrypricesbeyondlevelsintoasustainabletrend.
Trading breakouts at key levels can involve a lot of risk and as a re-
sult,falsebreakoutscenariosappearmorefrequentlythanactualbreakout
scenarios. Sometimes prices will test the resistance level once, twice, or
even three times before breaking out. This has fostered the development
ofalargecontingentofcontra-trendtraderswholookonlytofadebreak-
outsinthecurrencymarkets.Yetfadingeverybreakoutcanalsoresultin
some significant losses because once a real breakout occurs, the trend is
generallystrongandlong-lasting.Sowhatthisboilsdowntoisthattraders
need a methodology for screening out consolidation patterns for trades
thathaveahigherpotentialofresultinginafalsebreakout.Thefollowing
rulesprovideagoodbasisforscreeningsuchtrades.Thefaderstrategyis
avariationofthewaitingfortherealdealstrategy.Itusesthedailycharts
toidentifytherange-boundenvironmentandthehourlychartstopinpoint
entrylevels.
Strategy Rules
Long
1. Locate a currency pair whose 14-period ADX is less than 35. Ideally
theADX should alsobetrending downward, indicatingthat thetrend
isweakeningfurther.
2. Waitforthemarkettobreakbelowthepreviousday’slowbyatleast
15pips.

P1:JYS
c09 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 15:17 Printer:Yettocome
130 DAYTRADINGANDSWINGTRADINGTHECURRENCYMARKET
3. Placeanentryordertobuy15pipsabovethepreviousday’shigh.
4. Aftergettingfilled,placeyourinitialstopnomorethan30pipsaway.
5. Takeprofitonthepositionwhenpricesincreasebydoubleyourrisk,
or60pips.
Short
1. Locate a currency pair whose 14-period ADX is less than 35. Ideally
theADX should alsobetrendingdownward, indicating thatthetrend
isweakeningfurther.
2. Lookforamoveabovethepreviousday’shighbyatleast15pips.
3. Placeanentryordertosell15pipsbelowthepreviousday’slow.
4. Oncefilled,placetheinitialprotectivestopnomorethan30pipsabove
yourentry.
5. Takeprofitsonthepositionwhenitruns60pipsinyourfavor.
Further Optimization
Thefalsebreakoutstrategyworksbestwhentherearenosignificanteco-
nomic data scheduled for release that could trigger sharp unexpected
movements. For example, prices often consolidate ahead of the U.S.
nonfarm payrolls release. Generally speaking, they are consolidating for
areasonandthatreasonisbecausethemarketisundecidedandiseither
positionedalreadyorwantstowaittoreactfollowingthatrelease.Either
way, there is a higher likelihood that any breakout on the back of the re-
leasewouldbearealoneandnotonethatyouwanttofade.Thisstrategy
works best with currency pairs that are less volatile and have narrower
tradingranges.
Examples
Figure 9.17 is an hourly chart of the EUR/USD. Applying the rules just
given, we see that the 14-period ADX dips below 35, at which point we
begin looking for prices to break below the previous day’s low of 1.2166
by15pips.Oncethatoccurs,welookforabreakbackabovetheprevious
day’s high of 1.2254 by 15 pips, at which point we enter into position at
1.2269.Thestopisplaced30pipsbelowtheentrypriceat1.2239,withthe
limitexitorderplaced60pipsabovetheentryat1.2329.Theexitordergets
triggeredafewhourslaterforatotalprofitof60pipswithariskof30pips.
Figure 9.18 is an example of the fader trading strategy on the short
side.ApplyingtherulestothehourlychartoftheGBP/USD,weseethatthe

P1:JYS
c09 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 15:17 Printer:Yettocome
TechnicalTradingStrategies 131
FIGURE 9.17 EUR/USDFaderChart
(Source:www.eSignal.com)
FIGURE 9.18 GBP/USDFaderChart
(Source:www.eSignal.com)

P1:JYS
c09 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 15:17 Printer:Yettocome
132 DAYTRADINGANDSWINGTRADINGTHECURRENCYMARKET
14-periodADXdipsbelow35,atwhichpointwebegintolookforpricesto
break15pipsabovethepreviousday’shighof1.8865orbelowtheprevious
day’slowof1.8760.Thebreakaboveoccursfirst,atwhichtimewelookfor
pricestoreverseandbreakbackbelowthepreviousday’slow.Afewhours
later,thebreakoccursandwesell15pipsbelowthepreviousday’slowat
1.8745. We then place our stop 30 pips away at 1.8775 with a take profit
order 60 pips lower at 1.8685. The limit exit order gets triggered, and, as
indicatedonthechart,thetradewasprofitable.
FILTERING FALSE BREAKOUTS
Trading breakouts can be a very rewarding but frustrating endeavor as
many breakouts have a tendency to fail. A major reason why this occurs
frequently in the foreign exchange market is because the market is much
more technically driven than many of the other markets and as a result
there are many market participants who intentionally look to break pairs
outinordertosuckinothernonsuspectingtraders.Inanefforttofilterout
potential false breakouts, a price action screener should be used to iden-
tify those breakouts that have a higher probability of success. The rules
behindthisstrategyarespecificallydevelopedtotakeadvantageofstrong
trending markets thatmake new highs that thenproceed tofailby taking
outarecentlowandthenreverseagaintomakeothernewhighs.Thistype
of setup tends to have a very high success rate as it allows traders to en-
terstronglytrendingmarketsafterweakerplayershavebeenflushedout,
onlytohaverealmoneyplayersreenterthemarketandpushthepairupto
makemajorhighs.
Strategy Rules
Long
1. Lookforacurrencypairthatismakinga20-dayhigh.
2. Lookforthepairtoreverseoverthenextthreedaystomakeatwo-day
low.
3. Buythepairifittakesoutthe20-dayhighwithinthreedaysofmaking
thetwo-daylow.
4. Place the initial stop a few pips below the original two-day low that
wasidentifiedinstep2.
5. Protect any profits with a trailing stop or take profit by double the
amountrisked.

P1:JYS
c09 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 15:17 Printer:Yettocome
TechnicalTradingStrategies 133
Short
1. Lookforacurrencypairthatismakinga20-daylow.
2. Lookforthepairtoreverseoverthenextthreedaystomakeatwo-day
high.
3. Sellthepairifittradesbelowthe20-daylowwithinthreedaysofmak-
ingthetwo-dayhigh.
4. Riskuptoafewticksabovetheoriginaltwo-dayhighthatwasidenti-
fiedinstep2.
5. Protectprofitswithatrailingstoportakeprofitbydoubletheamount
risked.
Examples
Take a look at our first example in Figure 9.19. The daily chart of the
GBP/USDshowsthatthecurrencypairmadeanew20-dayhighonNovem-
ber 17 at 1.8631. This means that the currency pair gets onto our radar
screens and we prepare to look for the pair to make a new two-day low
andthenrallybackbeyondtheprevious20-dayhighof1.8631overthenext
three days. We see this occur on November 23, at which time we enter a
fewpipsabovethehighat1.8640.Wethenplaceourstopafewpipsbelow
FIGURE 9.19 GBP/USDFilteringFalseBreakoutsChart
(Source:www.eSignal.com)

P1:JYS
c09 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 15:17 Printer:Yettocome
134 DAYTRADINGANDSWINGTRADINGTHECURRENCYMARKET
the two-day low of 1.8472 at 1.8465. As the currency moves in our favor,
wehavetwochoices:eithertotakeprofitsbydoubletheamountthatwe
risked,whichwouldbe336pipsinprofits,ortouseatrailingstopsuchas
atwo-barlow.Wedecidetotrailbythetwo-barlowandendupgettingout
ofthepositionat1.9362onDecember8foratotalprofitof722pipsintwo
weeks.
Figure9.20showsanotherexampleofthisstrategyintheworks.The
daily chart of USD/CAD shows that the currency pair made a new 20-day
highonApril21at1.3636.Thismeansthatthecurrencypairisnowonour
radarscreensandwearelookingforthepairtomakeanewtwo-daylow
and then retrace back below the previous 20-day high of 1.3636 over the
next three days. We see this occur on April 23, at which time we enter a
fewpipsabovethehighat1.3645.Wethenplaceourstopafewpipsbelow
theoriginaltwo-daylowof1.3514at1.3505.Asthecurrencymovesinour
favor, we have two choices: either to take profits by double the amount
thatwerisked,whichwouldbe280pipsinprofits,ortouseatrailingstop
such as a two-bar low. Using a two-bar low trailing stop, the trade would
have been closed at 1.3686 for a 41-pip profit. Alternatively, the 280-pip
limitwouldhavebeenexecutedonMay10.
Our last example is on the short side. Figure 9.21 is a daily chart of
USD/JPY. The chart illustrates that USD/JPY made a new 20-day low on
October 11 below 109.30. The currency pair then proceeded to make a
FIGURE 9.20 USD/CADFilteringFalseBreakoutsChart
(Source:www.eSignal.com)

P1:JYS
c09 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 15:17 Printer:Yettocome
TechnicalTradingStrategies 135
FIGURE 9.21 USD/JPYFilteringFalseBreakoutsChart
(Source:www.eSignal.com)
new two-day high on October 13 of 110.21. Prices then reversed over the
next two days to break below the original 20-day low, at which point our
sell order at 109.20 (a few pips below the 20-day low) was triggered. We
placed our stop a few pips above the two-day high at 110.30. As the cur-
rency moves in our favor, we have two choices: either to take profits by
double the amount that we risked, which would be 220 pips in profits, or
touseatrailingstopsuchasatwo-barhigh.Thetwo-barprofitwouldhave
the trade exited at 106.76 on November 2, while the 220-pip profit would
havethetradeexitedat107.00onOctober25.
CHANNEL STRATEGY
Channel trading is less exotic but nevertheless works very well with cur-
rencies.Theprimaryreasonisbecausecurrenciesrarelyspendmuchtime
intighttradingrangesandhavethetendencytodevelopstrongtrends.By
just going through a few charts, traders can see that channels can easily
beidentifiedandoccurfrequently.Acommonscenariowouldbechannel
tradingduringtheAsiansessionandabreakoutineithertheLondonorthe
U.S.session.Therearemanyinstanceswhereeconomicreleasesaretrig-
gersforabreakofthechannel.Thereforeitisimperativethattraderskeep
ontopofeconomicreleases.Ifachannelhasformed,abigU.S.numberis
expected to be released, and the currency pair is at the top of a channel,

P1:JYS
c09 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 15:17 Printer:Yettocome
136 DAYTRADINGANDSWINGTRADINGTHECURRENCYMARKET
the probability of a breakout is high, so traders should be looking to buy
thebreakout,notfadeit.
Channelsarecreatedwhenwedrawatrendlineandthendrawaline
that is parallel to the trend line. Most if not all of the price activity of the
currency pair should fall between the two channel lines. We will seek to
identifysituationswherethepriceistradingwithinanarrowchannel,and
thentradeinthedirectionofabreakoutfromthechannel.Thisstrategywill
be particularly effective when used prior to a fundamental market event
suchasthereleaseofmajoreconomicnews,orwhenusedjustpriortothe
openofamajorfinancialmarket.
Herearetherulesforlongtradesusingthistechnique.
1. First,identifyachanneloneitheranintradayoradailychart.Theprice
shouldbecontainedwithinanarrowrange.
2. Enterlongasthepricebreaksabovetheupperchannelline.
3. Placeastopjustundertheupperchannelline.
4. Trailyourstophigherasthepricemovesinyourfavor.
Examples
Let us now examine a few examples. The first is a USD/CAD 15-minute
chartshowninFigure9.22.Thetotalrangeofthechannelisapproximately
FIGURE 9.22 USD/CADChannelExample
(Source:www.eSignal.com)

P1:JYS
c09 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 15:17 Printer:Yettocome
TechnicalTradingStrategies 137
30 pips. In accordance with our strategy, we place entry orders 10 pips
above and below the channel at 1.2395 and 1.2349. The order to go long
gets triggered first and almost immediately we place a stop order 10 pips
under the upper channel line at 1.2375. USD/CAD then proceeds to rally
and reaches our target of double the range at 1.2455. A trailing stop also
couldhavebeenused,similartotheonesthatwetalkedaboutinourrisk
managementsectioninChapter8.
The next example, shown in Figure 9.23, is a 30-minute chart of
EUR/GBP.Thetotalrangebetweenthetwolinesis15pips.Inaccordance
withourstrategy,weplaceentryorders10pipsaboveandbelowthechan-
nelat0.6796and0.6763.Theordertogolonggetstriggeredfirstandalmost
immediatelyweplaceastoporder10pipsundertheupperchannellineat
0.6776. EUR/GBP then proceeds to rally and reaches our target of double
therangeat0.6826.
Figure 9.24 is a 5-minute chart of the EUR/USD. The total range be-
tweenthetwolinesis13pipsoverthecourse offourhours.Thechannel
actuallyalsooccursbetweentheEuropeanandU.S.openaheadoftheU.S.
retailsalesreport.Inaccordancewithourstrategy,weplaceentryorders
10pipsaboveandbelowthechannelat1.2785and1.2752.Theordertogo
shortgetstriggeredfirst,andalmostimmediatelyweplaceastoporder10
pipsabovethelowerchannellineat1.2772.TheEUR/USDthenproceedsto
selloffsignificantlyandhitsourtargetofdoubletherangeof26pips.More
FIGURE 9.23 EUR/GBPChannelExample
(Source:www.eSignal.com)

P1:JYS
c09 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 15:17 Printer:Yettocome
138 DAYTRADINGANDSWINGTRADINGTHECURRENCYMARKET
FIGURE 9.24 EUR/USDChannelExample
(Source:www.eSignal.com)
aggressivetradersalsocouldhavetrailedtheirstopstotakeadvantageof
whateventuallybecameamuchmoreextensivemovelower.
PERFECT ORDER
Aperfectorderinmovingaveragesisdefinedasasetofmovingaverages
thatareinsequentialorder.Foranuptrend,aperfectorderwouldbeasitu-
ationinwhichthe10-daysimplemovingaverage(SMA)isatahigherprice
level than the 20-day SMA, which is higher than the 50-day SMA. Mean-
while,the100-daySMAwouldbebelowthe50-daySMA,whilethe200-day
SMA would be below the 100-day SMA. In a downtrend, the opposite is
true,wherethe200-daySMAisatthehighestlevelandthe10-daySMAis
at the lowest level. Having the moving averages stacked up in sequential
order is generally a strong indicator of a trending environment. Not only
does it indicate that the momentum is on the side of the trend, but the
moving averages also serve as multiplelevels of support. Tooptimize the
perfectorderstrategy,tradersshouldalsolookforADXtobegreaterthan
20 and trending upward. Entry and exit levels are difficult to determine
withthisstrategy,butwegenerallywanttostayinthetradeaslongasthe
perfectorderholdsandexitoncetheperfectordernolongerholds.Perfect

P1:JYS
c09 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 15:17 Printer:Yettocome
TechnicalTradingStrategies 139
ordersdonothappenoften,andthepremiseofthisstrategyistocapture
theperfectorderwhenitfirsthappens.
The perfect order seeks to take advantage of a trending environment
nearthebeginningofthetrend.Herearetherulesforusingthistechnique.
1. Lookforacurrencypairwithmovingaveragesinperfectorder.
2. LookforADXpointingupward,ideallygreaterthan20.
3. Buyfivecandlesaftertheinitialformationoftheperfectorder(ifitstill
holds).
4. Theinitialstopisthelowonthedayoftheinitialcrossoverforlongs
andthehighforshorts.
5. Exitthepositionwhentheperfectordernolongerholds.
Examples
Figure9.25isadailychartoftheEUR/USD.OnOctober27,2004,moving
averagesintheEUR/USDformedasequentialperfectorder.Weenterinto
thepositionfivecandlesaftertheinitialformationat1.2820.Ourinitialstop
isattheOctober27,2004lowof1.2695.Thepaircontinuestotrendhigher,
and we exit the position when the perfect order no longer holds and the
10-day SMA moves below the 20-day SMA. This occurs on December 22,
FIGURE 9.25 EUR/USDPerfectOrderExample
(Source:www.eSignal.com)

P1:JYS
c09 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 15:17 Printer:Yettocome
140 DAYTRADINGANDSWINGTRADINGTHECURRENCYMARKET
2005,whenpricesopenat1.3370.Thetotalprofitonthistradeis550pips.
Werisked125pipsonthetrade.
ThenextexampleisUSD/CHF.InFigure9.26,theperfectorderoccurs
onNovember3,2004.Inaccordancewithourrules,weenterintothetrade
fivecandlesaftertheinitialformationat1.1830.OurstopisattheNovem-
ber 3, 2004 high (for a short trade) of 1.1927. The pair then proceeds to
continue to trend lower, and we exit the position when the perfect order
no longer holds and the 20-day SMA moves below the 10-day SMA. This
occursonDecember16,2005,whenpricesopenat1.1420.Thetotalprofit
onthistradeis410pips.Werisked97pips.
Figure9.27isaperfectorderformationintheUSD/CAD.Theformation
materializedonSeptember30,2004.Wecountfivebarsforwardandenter
intothepositionat1.2588withastopat1.2737.Thepairthenproceedsto
selloffandwelooktoexitthepositionwhentheperfectorderformation
no longer holds. This occurs on December 9, 2005, at which time we buy
backourpositionat1.2145fora443-pipprofitwhilerisking149pips.
HOW TO TRADE NEWS RELEASES
One of the most popular methods of trading currencies is to trade news
releases.Thistypeofstrategyisintriguingtomanypeoplebecauseofthe
instantgratification.Youlayonthetrademinutesbeforetherelease,your
FIGURE 9.26 USD/CHFPerfectOrderExample
(Source:www.eSignal.com)

P1:JYS
c09 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 15:17 Printer:Yettocome
TechnicalTradingStrategies 141
FIGURE 9.27 USD/CADPerfectOrderExample
(Source:www.eSignal.com)
heartpumpswhentheclocktickswithin60secondsofthenumbercoming
out,andwhenitdoes,youfeeleitheraninstantsenseofelation,thetrading
high,oraninstantsenseoffrustration.Thisisgreatfortraderswholikea
lotofactionwithinaveryshortperiodoftime.Tradingnewsisbased on
the idea that when an economic number deviates significantly from the
consensus forecast, there is usually a knee-jerk reaction accompanied by
decent follow-through. However, there are many different ways to trade
newsreleases,andifdoneincorrectly,itcanleadtomorelosersthanwin-
ners. The first strategy that I use is to place a trade before the number is
released,thesecondistotakethetradeonlyafterthenewsreleasehitsthe
wires,andthethirdistodoacombinationofboth.
Oneofthebiggestadvantagesofproactivetradingistherisk-to-reward
ratio,whichisusuallyverygoodbecausethestrategyentailsenteringinto
aposition15to20minutesbeforethenumberisreleased.Thereasonwe
do not wait until 5 minutes before the release is because spreads usually
widen,andsomebrokerswillmakeexecutiondifficult.Oncetheeconomic
number isout, the spike that is driven by thedata creates an opportunity
whereprofitscanbetakenonaportionofapositionortheentireposition.
Ifyourviewontheeconomicdataprovestobewrong,thestopwouldbe
hitalmostimmediately;inotherwords,youareeitherrightorout.
Here are some general guidelines for proactive trading (use 5-minute
charts).

P1:JYS
c09 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 15:17 Printer:Yettocome
142 DAYTRADINGANDSWINGTRADINGTHECURRENCYMARKET
Strategy Rules for Proactive Trading
Long
1. Enter into a position no more than 20 minutes before a major news
reportwillbereleased.
Rule#1getsyouintothepositionwhenspreadsarestillrelativelytight.
Taking the trade 20 minutes before a release also gives you the
opportunitytofocusontheeventriskandnotanyothernews.
2. Placeastop10pipsbelowtherangelowor30pipsbelowyourentry
price,whicheveriscloser.Therangeisdefinedasthepasttwohours
ofpriceaction,butiftherangeistoosmall,lookforthemoreobvious
swinghighorlow.
Rule#2keepstherisklow.
3. Takeyourprofitonhalfofthepositionwhenitmovesinyourfavorby
theamountrisked.
Rule#3istobankprofitswhenyouhavethemandplayonlywiththe
house’smoneyonthesecondhalfoftheposition.
4. Trailstopontheremainderofthepositionbythe20-daysimplemoving
average(SMA)orsetahardstopofthreetimesrisk.
Rule#4,usingthe20-daySMA,allowsyoutocapitalizeonasmuchof
themoveaspossible.
Short
1. Enter into a position no more than 20 minutes before a major news
reportwillbereleased.
2. Placeastop10pipsabovetherangehighor30pipsaboveyourentry
price,whicheveriscloser.Therangeisdefinedasthepasttwohours
ofpriceaction,butiftherangeistoosmall,lookforthemoreobvious
swinghighorlow.
3. Takeyourprofitonhalfofthepositionwhenitmovesinyourfavorby
theamountrisked.
4. Trailstopontheremainderofthepositionbythe20-daySMAorseta
hardstopofthreetimesrisk.
Let’stakealookatanactualnewstradethatwerecommendedforsub-
scribers to BKForex Advisor. On February 8, 2008, the Canadian employ-
ment report for the month of January was due for release at 7 a.m. New
York time. We believed that the number was going to be strong, because
theCanadianeconomyhadbeenperformingverywellthankstoskyrock-
eting oil prices. The leading indicators of Canadian employment that we

P1:JYS
c09 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 15:17 Printer:Yettocome
TechnicalTradingStrategies 143
followalsosuggestedthatthenumberwasgoingtobeveryhot.Themar-
ketatthetimewaslookingforemployment toincreasebyonly11Kafter
having dropped by 18K the prior month. Therefore, our trade recommen-
dation was to go long Canadian dollars and short U.S. dollars (or short
USD/CAD)20minutesbeforethenumberwastobereleasedat7a.m.,as
indicatedbyFigure9.28.Ourentrypriceatthetimewas1.0081.Thehighof
therangeforthepastfewhourswas1.0085,soourstopshouldbeplaced
at1.0095(rangehighplus10pips),puttingourriskatonly14pips.Please
note that this risk is actually quite small, because usually the stop is be-
tween25and30pipsawayfromtheentryprice.Assoonasthetradewas
initiated,weplacedthetargetorlimitonhalfonourpositionat1.0067(or
1.0081minus14pips).Tosomepeoplethismayseemconservative,andit
is, but one of the cardinal rules that we follow at BKForex Advisor is to
never let a winner turn into a loser, which is why we always take profits
quickly on half of our position and trail our stop on the remainder of the
position.
The Canadian employment report came out at 7 a.m., and it quadru-
pledexpectationsbyincreasing46.4K.Thisledtoanimmediatesell-offin
USD/CAD.Ourtakeprofitwashitinstantaneouslyasthecurrencypairfell
from1.0075to0.9983(90pips)inamatterofminutes.Assoonasthefirst
FIGURE 9.28 USD/CADProactiveTrade
(Source:www.eSignal.com)

P1:JYS
c09 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 15:17 Printer:Yettocome
144 DAYTRADINGANDSWINGTRADINGTHECURRENCYMARKET
half of our position was closed, we moved our stop to breakeven on the
remainderofthepositionandtrailedthestopbythe20-daySMAonthe5-
minutecharts.Therestofthepositionwaseventuallyexitedat0.9970for
atotalgainof125pipsoranaveragegainof62.5pips.
Thebiggest problem withproactive trading,however, isthedifficulty
of predicting economic data. BKForex subscribers benefit from having
some of the work done for them with the weekly Event Risk Calendar,
but unless you have a strong background in economics or years of expe-
rience trading fundamentally, it is hard to figure out whether a piece of
datawillincreaseordecreasefromthepriormonth,letalonebeatormiss
expectations.
That is why most people prefer to trade reactively. There is no need
toguesswhetheraneconomicreleasewillbestrongorweak,becausethe
wholeideabehindreactivetradingistopullthetriggeronlyaftertheeco-
nomicdatareportcomesoutandonlyifitissignificantlybetterorworse
than the market’s forecast. Most signal providers focusing on news trade
reactively.Agoodruleofthumbistotradeaneconomicdatareleaseonly
ifthesurpriseisgreaterthan100percentofthemarket’sforecast.
For the Canadian employment report, for example, a reactive news
tradershouldshortUSD/CADonlyifCanadianemploymentisgreaterthan
22K or go long USD/CAD only if employment is negative (remember the
marketislookingforan11Krise).Thebiggerthedeviationfromthemar-
ket’sforecast,thebetterthetrade.
Here are some general guidelines for reactive trading (use 5-minute
charts).
Strategy Rules for Reactive Trading
Long
1. Enterintoaposition5minutesafteramajornewsreportisreleased.
Rule#1givesyouachancetomakesurethattherearenoimmediate
retracements.Ifanumberisbig,therewillbemorethan5minutes
offollow-through.
2. Placeastopatthelowofthenewscandle.
Rule#2givesyouatechnicallybasedlogicalstop.Ifthecurrencypair
managestoretracebacktothelowofthecandlewhenthenewsis
released, it indicates that the market doesn’t really believe in the
surprise.
3. Takeyourprofitonhalfofthepositionwhenitmovesinyourfavorby
theamountrisked.
Rule#3istobankprofitswhenyouhavethemandplayonlywiththe
house’smoneyonthesecondhalfoftheposition.

P1:JYS
c09 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 15:17 Printer:Yettocome
TechnicalTradingStrategies 145
4. Trailstopontheremainderofthepositionbythe20-daySMAorseta
hardstopofthreetimesrisk.
Rule#4,usingthe20-daySMA,allowsyoutocapitalizeonasmuchof
themoveaspossible.
Short
1. Enterintoaposition5minutesafteramajornewsreportisreleased.
2. Placeastopatthehighofthenewscandle.
3. Takeyourprofitonhalfofthepositionwhenitmovesinyourfavorby
theamountrisked.
4. Trailstopontheremainderofthepositionbythe20-daySMAorseta
hardstopofthreetimesrisk.
Going back to the example of the Canadian employment report, a re-
activetraderwouldenterthetradeat1.0015withastopat1.0075(which
is the high of the 5-minute news candle). As indicated in Figure 9.29,
USD/CAD consolidates for approximately two hours before finally break-
ingdownandhittingthefirsttargetof0.9955at10:55a.m.NewYorktime.
The stop is then moved to breakeven on the second half of the position.
FIGURE 9.29 USD/CADReactiveTrade
(Source:www.eSignal.com)

P1:JYS
c09 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 15:17 Printer:Yettocome
146 DAYTRADINGANDSWINGTRADINGTHECURRENCYMARKET
Accordingtothetradingrules,thestopistrailedbythe20-daySMAonthe
5-minutechartsandeventuallyclosedat0.9975foratotalprofitof100pips
oranaverageprofitof50pipsonthetrade.
Although reactive trading requires far less guesswork than proactive
trading,thestoptendstobemuchlarger,whichmaybedifficultforsome
traders to stomach. Also, the move or the first target may not be reached
for hours. With proactive trading, by contrast, as long as the surprise is
fairly decent, the first target is usually reached within the first 5 minutes
of the release. Although the second half of the position may remain open
forafewhours,thestopisatbreakeven,whichmeansthatthereisnoreal
downsiderisktothetrade.
Since proactive and reactive trading both have their pitfalls, the best
waytotradeisacombinationofthetwostrategies.Althoughitmaybedif-
ficulttopredicteverypieceofeconomicdata,wemayoftenhaveaviewon
specificnewsreleases.Forexample,ifacountry’scurrencyisveryweak,it
maynotbedifficulttomakeaneducatedguessthattradedeficitswillnar-
rowortradesurpluseswillincreasebecauseaweakcurrencycouldhelpto
boostexports.Theoppositewouldbetrueforacountrywithastrengthen-
ingcurrency.Iftheeuro,forexample,rose500pipsinonemonth,thereis
adecentchancethatinthesamemonthorthemonthafter,theU.S.trade
deficitwillnarrow.However,itmaynotbeworthwhiletoinitiateourentire
positionatonetimeifwedonotfeelstronglyaboutthepotentialoutcome
of the economic release, because doubling our position doubles our risk.
There are pieces of economic data that can be used to predict other eco-
nomic data, increasing the accuracy of the economic predictions; and if
they do not all line up, our confidence levels would decrease. Therefore,
half of the position could be initiated ahead of number, and if the call is
correct,wecouldinitiatethesecondhalfofthepositionaftertherelease.
Even though we may be giving up potential profits, if we are wrong, our
losswouldbemuchless.
Here are the rules or guidelines that we use to trade proactively and
reactively.
Strategy Rules for Proactive and
Reactive Trading
Long
1. Enterintohalfofthepositionnomorethan20minutesbeforeamajor
newsreportwillbereleased.
2. Placeastop10pipsbelowtherangelowor30pipsbelowyourentry
price,whicheverissmaller.
Iftheeconomicdataisinlinewiththeinitialproactivetrade:

P1:JYS
c09 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 15:17 Printer:Yettocome
TechnicalTradingStrategies 147
3. Enter the second half of the position 5 minutes after a major news
reportisreleased.
4. Put a stop for the entire position at 45 pips below the second entry
price,andthentrailby20-daySMA.
5. Takeyourprofitonhalfofthepositionwhenitmovesinyourfavorby
45pips.
6. Trailstopontheremainderofthepositionbythe20-daySMA.
Short
1. Enterintohalfofthepositionnomorethan20minutesbeforeamajor
newsreportwillbereleased.
2. Placeastop10pipsabovetherangehighor30pipsaboveyourentry
price,whicheverissmaller.
Iftheeconomicdataisinlinewiththeinitialproactivetrade:
3. Enter the second half of the position 5 minutes after a major news
reportisreleased.
4. Put a stop for the entire position at 45 pips below the second entry
price,andthentrailby20-daySMA.
5. Takeyourprofitonhalfofthepositionwhenitmovesinyourfavorby
45pips.
6. Trailstopontheremainderofthepositionbythe20-daySMA.
If the economic data is not in line with the initial trade, then do not
takeasecondposition;instead,exitoutofthefirstposition.
IntheUSD/CAD example, the first half of the position would be initi-
ated at 1.0081 with a stop of 1.0095 (see Figure 9.30). After the economic
datareportisreleased,thesecondhalfofthepositionshouldbeinitiated
at 1.0015 for a blended price of 1.0048. The stop of the entire position is
thenloweredto1.0060or45pipsawayfromthesecondentryprice(thisis
arulethatyoucanaltertoyourowntradingstyle).Halfofthepositionis
takenoffwhenthetrademovesinyourfavorby45pips,orhits0.9970.The
remainderofthepositionisthenexitedwhenthepricemovesbackabove
the20-daySMAor0.9975.Thetotalprofitonthistradeis151pips,andthe
averageprofitonthetradeis75pips.
Herearetwomoreexamplesofcombiningproactiveandreactivenews
trading.
In the first example, we are trading the U.K. retail sales numbers
on February 21, 2008. (See Figure 9.31.) The market believes that U.K.
retail sales will be strong and we agree, but we think that there is a de-
centchanceforanevengreatersurprisegiventhestrengthoftheleading

P1:JYS
c09 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 15:17 Printer:Yettocome
148 DAYTRADINGANDSWINGTRADINGTHECURRENCYMARKET
FIGURE 9.30 USD/CADProactiveandReactiveCombinedTrade
(Source:www.eSignal.com)
FIGURE 9.31 GBP/USDProactiveandReactiveCombinedTrade
(Source:www.eSignal.com)

P1:JYS
c09 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 15:17 Printer:Yettocome
TechnicalTradingStrategies 149
indicators for U.K. retail sales that we typically follow. Therefore, we go
longtheGBP/USD20minutesbeforethereleaseat1.9470.Thestoponthe
initialpositionisplacedat1.9450,or10pipsbelowtherangelow.TheU.K.
retail sales number comes out more than double the market’s forecast at
0.8 percent. The GBP/USD jumps 70 pips in the first 5 minutes after the
release.Wethenenterthesecondhalfofthepositionat1.9530andmove
the stop on the entire position to 1.9485 (1.9530 minus 40 pips). The tar-
getorlimitontheinitialpositionisplacedat1.9575,whichisreachedap-
proximately90minuteslater.WeremaininthepositionuntiltheGBP/USD
breaksthe20-daySMAonthe5-minutecharts,whichisat1.9553.Thetotal
profitonthistradeis151pipsandtheaverageprofitonthetradeis75pips.
In the second example, we are trading the German trade balance on
April 8, 2008. The market believes that the German trade balance will de-
teriorate because of the strength of the euro, but we believed that it will
actually be strong since new orders and manufacturing production have
increased. Therefore, we go long the EUR/USD 20 minutes before the re-
leaseat1.5733.(SeeFigure9.32.)Theinitialstoponthepositionisplaced
10pipsbelowtherangelowof1.5727,or1.5717.TheGermantradebalance
reportcomesoutstrongerthanexpected,andweenterintothesecondhalf
ofthepositionat1.5740andmovethestopontheentirepositionto1.5700
(1.540 minus 40 pips). The target or limit on the initial position is placed
at1.5785.Unfortunately,theEUR/USDdoesnotmakeitto1.5785,butwe
end up exiting both lots of the position when the price breaks the 20-day
FIGURE 9.32 EUR/USDProactiveandReactiveCombinedTrade
(Source:www.eSignal.com)

P1:JYS
c09 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 15:17 Printer:Yettocome
150 DAYTRADINGANDSWINGTRADINGTHECURRENCYMARKET
SMAat1.5754,leavingtheentiretradestillprofitable.Thetotalgainis35
pipsandtheaverageprofitonthetradeis17.5pips.
Ifanyofourproactivetradeswerewrong,wewouldlosenomorethan
30pips.
20–100 SHORT-TERM
MOMENTUM STRATEGY
Although many people like to trade off of 5-minute charts, there is a big
differencebetweentradingnewsandusingothershort-termtradingstrate-
gies.Newstradingisnotforthefaintofheart,because manypeoplemay
finditimpossibletofigureoutabiasforeconomicdata,whileothersmay
finditextremelydifficulttopullthetriggerinreactiontoapieceofnews
whentheyseethatacurrencypairhasalreadymoved50to60pipsintheir
desireddirection.
Forthosetypesoftraders,itmaybehelpfultothinkaboutusingother
typesofstrategies.Themainreasonshort-termtradingisoftenmorepopu-
larthanlong-termtradingisbecausemanypeopledonothavethepatience
to wait days for a trade to develop. These are traders who need things to
happen immediately, cringe at every 10-pip move against them, and want
thetradetoturnaprofitwithinthenextfewminutesorelsetheywillaban-
dontheirposition.Theywouldbemorethanwillingtotake10pips10times
adaythantomake100pipsononetradewiththepotentialofwatchingthe
positionfirstmove50to60pipsagainstthem.
The best strategy for this type of trader is a short-term momentum
strategy. Although I prefer to trade news, one of my favorite strategies is
the20–100short-termmomentumstrategy.Thestrategyoutlinedherecan
be used independently or as a method to achieve a better entry price for
longer-term strategies. The whole premise behind the strategy is that you
golongorshortonlywhenmomentumisonyourside.Thisisveryimpor-
tantbecausethegoalistohityourfirstprofittargetassoonaspossible.
Inthisstrategy,weusethreedifferentindicators:the20-dayexponen-
tialmovingaverage(EMA),the100-daysimplemovingaverage(SMA),and
the moving average convergence/divergence (MACD). The 20-day EMA is
the trigger for the trading strategy, and the main reason we use the EMA
insteadoftheSMAisbecauseitplacesmoreweightonrecentmovements,
whichiswhatweneedforfastmomentumtrades.The100-daySMAisused
to make sure that we take only trades that are in line with the broader
trend, while the MACD is used to help gauge momentum and to filter out
lower-probability signals. We use the default settings for the MACD his-
togram:firstEMA=12,secondEMA=26,signalEMA=9,allusingclosing

P1:JYS
c09 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 15:17 Printer:Yettocome
TechnicalTradingStrategies 151
prices.ThetradeistakenonlywhentheMACDhasturnedwithinfivecan-
dles,becausewewanttoenterintothetradewhenmomentumisbeginning
tobuildandnotwhenitismaturing.
Thesearetherulesorguidelinesforthe20–100short-termmomentum
strategy.
LongTrade(Using5-MinuteCharts)
1. Findacurrencypairthatistradingbelowboththe20-dayEMAandthe
100-daySMA.
2. Waitforthepricetocrossabovebothmovingaveragesby15pips,and
makesurethattheMACDhasturnedpositivenolongerthan5candles
ago.
3. Buyatmarket.
4. Place your stop at the low of the candle that broke the moving aver-
ages.
5. Sellhalfofthepositionwhenthecurrencypairhasmovedinyourfavor
by the amount risked, and move your stop on the remaining position
tobreakeven.
6. Trail the stop on the remaining position by the 20-day EMA minus
15pips.
ShortTrade
1. Findacurrencypairthatistradingaboveboththe20-dayEMAandthe
100-daySMA.
2. Wait for the price to cross above both moving averages by 15 pips,
andmakesurethattheMACDhasturnednegativenolongerthanfive
candlesago.
3. Sellatmarket.
4. Place your stop at the high of the candle that broke the moving aver-
ages.
5. Buy back half of the position when the currency pair has moved in
yourfavorbytheamountrisked,andmoveyourstopontheremaining
positiontobreakeven.
6. Trail the stop on the rest of your position by the 20-day EMA plus 15
pips.
Herearesomeexamplesofthe20–100short-termmomentumstrategy
inaction:
Thefirstexamplethatwewilllookatisalongtrade.

P1:JYS
c09 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 15:17 Printer:Yettocome
152 DAYTRADINGANDSWINGTRADINGTHECURRENCYMARKET
OnApril10,2008,theEUR/USDbrokeaboveboththe20-dayEMAand
the 100-day SMA after a long Asian session consolidation. Before taking
thetrade,wecheckedthattheMACDatthetimehadjustturnedpositive,
and then we waited for the price to break above the moving averages by
15pipstogolong.(SeeFigure9.33.)Sincethemovingaveragepricecross
occurred at 1.5742, we entered the EUR/USD trade at 1.5757. The stop
wouldbeplacedat1.5738,whichisthelowofthecandlethatbrokeabove
the moving averages. The first target is the entry price plus the amount
risked. Since we entered at 1.5757 and our stop is at 1.5738, the amount
riskedis19pips.Therefore,thefirsttargetwouldbe1.5757plus19pips,or
1.5776. It is hit a few hours later, at which time we move our stop on the
restofthepositiontobreakeven.Thisisamoneymanagementrulethatwe
usemostoftenatBKForexAdvisor,becausehavingthestopatbreakeven
onthesecondhalfofthepositionmeansthatwearetradingwithonlyour
profits and are no longer vulnerable to losses. The position continues to
moveinourfavor.Eventhoughtherearetimeswhenthepricefallsbelow
the 20-day EMA, it never does so by more than 15 pips until 5:50 a.m. the
followingmorning.Atthattime,ourtrailingstopishitandweexitthere-
mainderofthetradeat1.5804,whichisthe20-dayEMAminus15pips.The
total gain on this position if two lots were taken would be 67 pips or an
averagegainof33.5pips.
ThesecondexampleisashorttradeinUSD/JPY.
On April 11, 2008, USD/JPY broke below both the 20-day EMA and
the100-daySMAatapproximately6:30a.m.NewYorktime.Beforetaking
thetrade,wecheckedthattheMACDatthetimehadjustturnednegative
and then we waited for the price to break below the moving averages by
FIGURE 9.33 EUR/USD5-MinuteChart
(Source:www.eSignal.com)

P1:JYS
c09 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 15:17 Printer:Yettocome
TechnicalTradingStrategies 153
15 pips to go short. Since the moving average price cross occurred at
101.88, we entered the USD/JPY short trade at 101.88 minus 15 pips or
101.73.(SeeFigure9.34.)Thestopisplacedatthehighofthecandlethat
brokethemovingaverage,or102.01.Thefirsttargetistheentrypricemi-
nustheamountrisked.Sinceweenteredintotheshorttradeat101.73and
ourstopisat102.01,theamountriskedwouldbe28pips.Thisputsourfirst
target at 101.45, or 101.73 minus 28 pips. The first target is hit 10 minutes
later,makingittheperfectshort-termtrade.Assoonasthathappens,the
stopismovedtobreakevenontheremainderoftheposition.Thenwecon-
tinuetotrailthestopuntilthepricebreaksbackabovethe20-dayEMAby
15pips.Thisoccursafewhourslaterat10:45a.m.,whenthesecondhalf
ofthepositioniseventuallyclosedat101.06foratotalgainonthetradeof
95pips(assumingtwolots)oranaveragegainof47.5pips.
ThethirdexampleisashorttradeintheGBP/USD.
OnApril21,2008,GBP/USDbrokebelowboththe20-dayEMAandthe
100-daySMAatapproximately2:00a.m.NewYorktime.Beforetakingthe
trade,wecheckedthattheMACDatthetimehadjustturnednegative,and
then we waited for the price to break below the moving averages by 15
pips to go short. (See Figure 9.35.) Since the moving average price cross
occurred at 1.9992, we entered the GBP/USD short trade at 1.9992 minus
15 pips, or 1.9977. The stop is placed at the high of the candle that broke
themovingaverage,or1.9999.Thefirsttargetistheentrypriceminusthe
amountrisked.Sinceweenteredintotheshorttradeat1.9977andourstop
isat1.9999,theamountriskedwouldbe22pips.Thisputsourfirsttarget
at 1.9955, or 1.9977 minus 22 pips. The first target is hit two hours later.
FIGURE 9.34 USD/JPY5-MinuteChart
(Source:www.eSignal.com)

P1:JYS
c09 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 15:17 Printer:Yettocome
154 DAYTRADINGANDSWINGTRADINGTHECURRENCYMARKET
FIGURE 9.35 GBP/USD5-MinuteChart
(Source:www.eSignal.com)
Assoonasthathappens,thestopismovedtobreakevenontheremaining
position. Then we continue to trail the stop until the price breaks back
above the 20-day EMA by 15 pips. This occurs a few hours later at 7:20
a.m.,whenthesecondhalfofthepositioniseventuallyclosedat1.9855for
atotalgainonthetradeof144pips(assumingtwolots)oranaveragegain
of72pips.
Thefinalexampleisonewherethetradegetsstoppedout.
OnApril18,2008,theAUD/USDbrokeaboveboththe20-dayEMAand
the 100-day SMA after a long Asian session consolidation. Before taking
the trade, we checked that the MACD at the time had just turned posi-
tive within the past five bars, and then we waited for the price to break
abovethemovingaveragesby15pipstogolong.Sincethemovingaverage
price cross occurred at 0.9368, we entered the AUD/USD trade at 0.9383.
(SeeFigure9.36.)Thestopwouldbeplacedat0.9366,whichisthelowof
thecandlethatbrokeabovethemovingaverages.Thefirsttargetistheen-
trypriceplustheamountrisked.Sinceweenteredat0.9383andourstop
isat0.9366,theamountriskedis17pips.Therefore,thefirsttargetwould
be 0.9383 plus 17 pips, or 0.9400. The currency pair takes hours to move
inourfavor,buttherallydoesnothaveenoughmomentumtohitourfirst
profittarget.Itstops2pipsshybeforereversingsharplytostopusoutfor
alossof34pipsonthetrade(assumingtwolots)oranaveragelossof17
pips.Theonlythingthatcouldhavegivenusacluethatthetrademightnot

P1:JYS
c09 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 15:17 Printer:Yettocome
TechnicalTradingStrategies 155
have much momentum could have been the fact that the MACD dip into
negativeterritorywasverynarrowandcameoffofalongerperiodabove
positiveterritory.Eitherway,thankfullythestopsonthistypeofstrategy
tendtobesmall,makingthelossbearable.
HIGH-PROBABILITY TURN STRATEGY
In the currency market, trends can last for a very long time. For some
people,thisgivesthemmanyopportunitiestojointhetrend,butforother
peoplewhoarecontrariansbynature,thelongerthetrendlasts,themore
frustrating it becomes. Based on my years of interaction with individual
traders as well as the data from the FXCM Speculative Sentiment Index
(FXCM SSI), I have seen that even though most traders deny it, they are
toppickersorbottomfishersbynature.
The FXCM Speculative Sentiment Index is based on the positioning
of the company’s most speculative clients. As indicated in Figure 9.37,
traders started to short the EUR/USD when it was trading at 1.28 and as
a group have remained net short from 1.28 all the way up to 1.56. There
areobviouslytraderswhodropinandoutofthesurveybecausetheywere
FIGURE 9.36 AUD/USD5-MinuteChart
(Source:www.eSignal.com)

P1:JYS
c09 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 15:17 Printer:Yettocome
156 DAYTRADINGANDSWINGTRADINGTHECURRENCYMARKET
FIGURE 9.37 FXCMSSIfortheEUR/USD
(Source:FXCM)
stopped out, but the chart clearly indicates that short positions were in-
creasedaround1.35and1.40.TheFXCMSSIispublishedonceaweekon
DailyFX.com.
Pickingatoporbottomcanbeextremelydifficult,andtheFXCMSSI
proves that many traders do it unsuccessfully. This makes finding a good
way to time a turn extremely important. One of my favorite strategies is
to look for extension moves, and I define an extension move as consecu-
tivestrengthorweakness.Therearemanytimesthatacurrencypairwill
rallyforsix,seven,oreightdaysstraightwithvirtuallynoretracement.The
longerthemovelasts,themorestatisticallysignificantitbecomesandthe
higher the likelihood that thestringofstrength or weakness willcome to
anend.
Basedonlookingat10years’worthofdata,Ihavefoundthatrarelydo
extensionmovesinthemajorcurrencypairsliketheEUR/USD,GBP/USD,
andUSD/JPYlastlongerthansevendays.
StartingwiththeEUR/USD,wecanseeinTable9.1thatoverthepast
10years,thelongestextensionmovethatoccurredinthecurrencylasted
for10days.Thetableisreadinthefollowingway:Therehavebeen10times
when the EUR/USD has moved in one direction for seven days straight,
withthemoveextendingforaneighthdayonlyfiveoutofthose10times.
Of those five times, only twice did the EUR/USD’s move last for a ninth
tradingday,andonlyoncediditthenlastforatenthday.Therefore,oncea
rallyorsell-offhascontinuedforsevendaysstraightintheEUR/USD,the
oddsforaturnwithinthenext24hoursincreaseexponentially,andthose

P1:JYS
c09 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 15:17 Printer:Yettocome
TechnicalTradingStrategies 157
TABLE9.1 LengthofEUR/USDExtension
Moves(10Years)
NumberofDays EUR/USD
1 1,292
2 595
3 273
4 125
5 64
6 35
7 10
8 5
9 2
10 1
11 0
12 0
13 0
14 0
15 0
oddsbecomeevenmorecompoundedifthemovelastsforaneighthday.
This provides traders with a high-probability short-term trading opportu-
nity.Pleasebearinmindthatthisstrategydoesnotusuallypredictmajor
turns,butoccasionallytheturncanbecomeameaningfulone.
ThenextsetofdataisfortheGBP/USD(seeTable9.2).Overthepast
10 years, the longest extension move lasted for 12 days. As indicated by
thedata,trendsintheBritishpoundhavelastedlongerthantrendsinthe
euro. The longest move in the EUR/USD was 10 days. However, it is also
important to realize that rarely do the moves in the GBP/USD extend for
eightdays;therehavebeenonlysevencasesofthis,whichmeansthatfor
theGBP/USDaneight-dayextensionhasapproximatelythesamestatisti-
calsignificanceasaseven-dayextensionmoveintheEUR/USD.
The last table, Table 9.3, provides the same data for USD/JPY. The
longestmovewasninedaysinlength,andthathappened onlytwiceover
thepast10years.
How Can You Use This Information?
Ihavedevisedsomerulestohelptradersutilizethisvaluableinformation:
RulesforaLongTrade(UsingDailyCharts)
1. Lookforsevenconsecutivedaysofweakness,whenthecloseofeach
dayislowerthantheopen.

P1:JYS
c09 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 15:17 Printer:Yettocome
158 DAYTRADINGANDSWINGTRADINGTHECURRENCYMARKET
TABLE9.2 LengthofGBP/USDExtension
Moves(10Years)
NumberofDays GBP/USD
1 1,352
2 659
3 299
4 145
5 69
6 31
7 12
8 7
9 3
10 2
11 2
12 1
13 0
14 0
15 0
TABLE9.3 LengthofUSD/JPYExtension
Moves(10Years)
NumberofDays USD/JPY
1 1,334
2 652
3 323
4 159
5 66
6 33
7 12
8 7
9 2
10 0
11 0
12 0
13 0
14 0
15 0

P1:JYS
c09 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 15:17 Printer:Yettocome
TechnicalTradingStrategies 159
2. Buy at 5 p.m. New York time, which is when the next trading candle
begins.
3. Placeastop30pipsbelowtheentryprice.
4. Close half of the position when it moves by two times the amount
risked.Movethestopontheremaininghalftoyourinitialentry.
5. Closetheremainingpositionwhenthepricehasmovedbyfourtimes
theamountrisked,or120pips.
RulesforaShortTrade
1. Look for seven consecutive days of strength, when the close of each
dayishigherthantheopen.
2. Sell at 5 p.m. New York time, which is when the next trading candle
begins.
3. Placeastop30pipsabovetheentryprice.
4. Close half of the position when it moves by two times the amount
risked.Movethestopontheremaininghalftoyourinitialentry.
5. Closetheremainingpositionwhenthepricehasmovedbyfourtimes
theamountrisked,or120pips.
Herearesomeexamplesofhowthisstrategyworks.
The first example is a long trade in USD/JPY. As indicated in
Figure 9.38, USD/JPY dropped for seven consecutive trading days. Based
ontheUSD/JPYtableofextensionmoves,weseethatonlysevenoutofthe
FIGURE 9.38 USD/JPYDailyChart
(Source:www.eSignal.com)

P1:JYS
c09 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 15:17 Printer:Yettocome
160 DAYTRADINGANDSWINGTRADINGTHECURRENCYMARKET
12timesthatUSD/JPYhasmovedinonedirectionforsevendaysstraight
did the move extend for an eighth day. Given this information, there is a
high probability that USD/JPY would not sell off for an eighth consecu-
tiveday.Forthatreason,wegolongUSD/JPYwhenthenextday’scandle
beginsat5p.m.NewYorktimewitha30-pipmoneystop.Thetradeisexe-
cutedat108.56withastopof108.26(108.56minus30pips).Thefirsttarget
issimplytwotimestheamountrisked,or60pips,whichplacesourlimitor-
dertoexitthefirsthalfofourpositionat108.56plus60pipsor109.16.This
isreachedtheverynextday,atwhichtimewemoveourstoptobreakeven,
orourinitialentrypriceof108.56.Thetargetonthesecondlotisfourtimes
the amount risked or 120 pips. Our entry price of 108.56 plus 120 pips is
109.76, and that, too, is hit 24 hours later, banking us a total profit of 180
pips,oranaverageprofitof90pipsperlotiftwolotsweretraded.
The second example is a short trade in GBP/USD. As indicated in
Figure9.39,GBP/USDralliedforsevenconsecutivetradingdays.Basedon
theGBP/USDtableofextensionmoves,weseethatonlysevenoutofthe12
timesthatGBP/USDhasmovedinonedirectionforsevendaysstraightdid
themoveextendforaneighthday.Giventhisinformation,thereisadecent
chance that the GBP/USD would not rally for an eighth consecutive day.
Forthatreason,wegoshortGBP/USDwhenthenextday’scandlebegins
at5p.m.NewYorktimewitha30-pipmoneystop.Thetradeisexecutedat
FIGURE 9.39 GBP/USDDailyChart
(Source:www.eSignal.com)

P1:JYS
c09 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 15:17 Printer:Yettocome
TechnicalTradingStrategies 161
2.0083withastopof2.0113(2.0113plus30pips).Thefirsttargetissimply
two times the amount risked, or 60 pips, which places our limit order to
exitthefirsthalfofourpositionat2.0083minus60pipsor2.0023.Thisis
reachedtheverynextday,atwhichtimewemoveourstoptobreakeven,
or to our initial entry price of 2.0083. The target on the second lot is four
timestheamountrisked,or120pips.Ourentrypriceof2.0083minus120
pips is 1.9963, and that is hit a few days later, banking us a total profit of
180pips,oranaverageprofitof90pipsperlotiftwolotsweretraded.
Does the Strategy Work for Other
Currency Pairs?
Thisstrategydoesworkonothercurrencypairs,butitisimportanttore-
alizethateachcurrencyisdifferent.Althoughsevendaysissignificantfor
the EUR/USD, GBP/USD, and USD/JPY, eight days is more significant for
currency pairs such as GBP/JPY, CHF/JPY, and GBP/CHF. Different cur-
rencypairshavedifferentcharacteristicsbecausesomearemoretrending
thanothers.
Thefollowingisanexampleoffadinganextensioninacurrencycross
such as EUR/JPY. As indicated in Figure 9.40, EUR/JPY rallied for seven
FIGURE 9.40 EUR/JPYDailyChart
(Source:www.eSignal.com)

P1:JYS
c09 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 15:17 Printer:Yettocome
162 DAYTRADINGANDSWINGTRADINGTHECURRENCYMARKET
consecutivetradingdays.Accordingtoourstrategyrules,wegoshortthe
currencypairwhenthenextday’scandlebeginsat5p.m.NewYorktime
with a 30-pip money stop. The trade is executed at 164.54, with a stop of
164.84(164.54plus30pips).Thefirsttargetissimplytwotimestheamount
risked,or60pips,whichplacesourlimitordertoexitthefirsthalfofour
positionat164.54minus60pipsor163.94.Thisisreachedtheverynextday,
atwhichtimewemoveourstoptobreakeven,orourinitialentrypriceof
164.54.Thetargetonthesecondlotisfourtimestheamountriskedor120
pips. Our entry price of 164.54 minus 120 pips is 163.34, and that is hit 24
hours after that, banking us a total profit of 180 pips, or an average profit
of90pipsperlotiftwolotsweretraded.
Can the First Target Be Altered?
When examining this strategy, many people may realize that the first tar-
get isrelatively tight and easily reached. Traders are free toalter the first
target to try to bank more pips, but please remember that the reason the
limit is placed at that level is because I like to focus on high-probability
trading strategies, and having the first target easily achievable allows us
tobankprofitsonthetradeeveniftheturnthatwearelookingatisonly
temporary.Whendesigningtradingstrategies,Iamabigbelieverthatitis
important to start with a good foundation, meaning a strategy that works
onthemostsimplisticlevel,becauseitishopedthatanyimprovementsor
alterationswillonlyincreasethestrategy’sprofitability.Tryingtoimprove
onastrategythatdoesn’tworkinthefirstplacebecomesfarmoredifficult.
Could You Trade a Six-Day Move Instead?
Given the rarity of a seven-day extension move, some traders may won-
derwhethertheycantradeasix-dayextensionmoveinsteadbecausethe
chance of the move continuing for a seventh day is relatively small. Al-
thoughthiscanbedone,itisnotrecommended.Tradersneedtobemindful
oftherisks,becauseinallthreeofthemajorcurrencies,themoveextended
foraseventhdayatleast10timeswithinthepast10years.
What Happens If the Move Continues for More
Than Seven Days?
One of the most common questions asked about this strategy is whether
the trade should be taken again if the move extends for more than seven
days. The answer is yes, because with each additional day that the move
continues,thegreaterthechanceofaturn.Also,theriskonthestrategyis
smallenoughtowithstanda10-dayextensionifboththefirstandsecond

P1:JYS
c09 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 15:17 Printer:Yettocome
TechnicalTradingStrategies 163
targets are eventually achieved. The math works out well as long as the
extensiondoesnotcontinueforatwelfthday.Table9.4showswhy.
According to Table 9.4, if we trade two lots and the seven-day fade
trade fails and the currency pair continues to move in the same direction
for an eighth day, we lose 60 pips on the trade. However, if we take the
tradeagainatthebeginningoftheninthtradingdayandbothtarget1and
target2areachieved,webank180pips.Thenetreturnonthetwotrades
wouldbe+120pips.
If the move continues for the ninth day and we attempt to fade the
move at the beginning of the tenth trading day, we would be starting off
with two losing trades and a loss of −120 pips. If we are correct and the
movedoesstoponthetenthday,thethirdtradewouldbank180pips,net-
tingusatotalof+60pipsonthethreetrades.
Ifwearesounluckythatthemovecontinuesforthetenthtradingday
and we attempt to fade the move again at the beginning of the eleventh
trading day, we would be starting off with a loss of −180 pips on three
TABLE9.4 ProfitandLossforExtensionMoves
Days Lot1 Lot2 PipsP/L
8 −30 −30 −60
9 60 120 180
TotalP/L 120
Days Lot1 Lot2 PipsP/L
8 −30 −30 −60
9 −30 −30 −60
10 60 120 180
TotalP/L 60
Days Lot1 Lot2 PipsP/L
8 −30 −30 −60
9 −30 −30 −60
10 −30 −30 −60
11 60 120 180
TotalP/L 0
Days Lot1 Lot2 PipsP/L
8 −30 −30 −60
9 −30 −30 −60
10 −30 −30 −60
11 −30 −30 −60
12 60 120 180
TotalP/L −60

P1:JYS
c09 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 15:17 Printer:Yettocome
164 DAYTRADINGANDSWINGTRADINGTHECURRENCYMARKET
trades. However, if we are right on the fourth trade, at least we would
breakeven.
Andontherareoccasionthatthemoveextendsfortheeleventhtrad-
ingdayandwedecidetoattemptthetradeagainonthetwelfthtradingday,
wewouldbestartingoffwithalossof−240pipsonfourtrades.Ifweend
upbeingrightonthefourthtrade,wewouldreduceourlossto−60pips.
A sequence of 12 consecutive trading days of strength is very rare; of the
threemajorcurrencypairs,amovehasextendedtothetwelfthtradingday
onlyonceinthepast10years,andthatwasintheGBP/USD.
Thereturns,ofcourse,arenotasgoodifthefirsttargetorlimitishit
andthesecondlotisclosedoutatbreakevenduetoaretracement,because
thelossesstarttobuildifthecurrencypair’smoveextendsforatenthtrad-
ing day. If the move continues for an eighth trading day and you attempt
tofadeitagainontheninthday,thebest-casescenariobasedonthestops
and limits of this strategy is breakeven. If the move is exhausted on the
tenthday,thenetlossonthetradewouldbe60pips.Thislosswouldgrow
to120pipsifthemovecontinuesforanotherdayandsoforth.Thankfully,
hitting just the first target usually does not happen, because the second
target of 120 pips is relatively close and still easily achievable, especially
asthemovesbecomemoreextended.Whenaturnhappens,ittendstobe
morethan100to150pips.
Although the entry and exit rules for this strategy apply well for the
EUR/USD, GBP/USD, and USD/JPY, when it comes to some of the other
currency pairs, particularly the Japanese yen crosses, the entry and exit
rules may have to be altered, because the wild volatility in some of these
pairsmaymakea30-pipstop-losstootight.

P1:JYS
c10 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 15:40 Printer:Yettocome
C H A P T E R 10
Fundamental
Trading
Strategies
PICKING THE STRONGEST PAIRING
Whentradingcurrencies,manytradersmakethemistakeofshapingopin-
ionsaroundonlyonespecificcurrencywithouttakingintoaccounttherel-
ativestrengthandweaknessofbothofthecurrenciesinthepairthatthey
aretrading.IntheFXmarket,thisneglectofforeigneconomicconditions
has the potential to greatly hinder the profitability of a trade. It also in-
creases the odds of a loss. When trading against a strong economy, there
ismoreroomforfailure;thecurrencyyouwanttotradecouldflopbadly,
leaving you stuck against a currency more likely to appreciate. Likewise,
there is an augmented chance that the other currency could strengthen,
resulting in a trade with negligible gains. Therefore, finding strong econ-
omy/weakeconomypairingsisagoodstrategytousewhenattemptingto
maximizereturns.
Take for example March 22, 2005—the U.S. Federal Reserve upped
itsriskforinflationinitsFederalOpenMarketCommittee(FOMC)state-
ment, causing every major currency pair to tank against the dollar. Along
withthis,aslewofpositiveU.S.economicdatafurtherreinforcedthedol-
lar’s strength. While you probably could have gained on any long dollar
trade at that point, insome of thepairs thedollar appreciation had much
more staying power than in others. For example, after the initial blood-
bath,thepounddidshowareboundintheweeksaftertheFed’smeeting,
while the yen depreciated for a longer period of time. The reason is be-
causeatthetime,Britain’seconomyhadbeenexhibitingaconsistent,im-
pressive amount of economic growth, which, after the compulsive dollar
165

P1:JYS
c10 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 15:40 Printer:Yettocome
166 DAYTRADINGANDSWINGTRADINGTHECURRENCYMARKET
frenzy, helped it gain back some substantial ground within a matter of a
fewweeks.ThereboundintheBritishpoundagainstthedollarcanbeseen
inFigure10.1.Afterhittingalowof1.8595onMarch28,thepairproceeded
to rebound back toward its pre-FOMC level of 1.9200 over the next three
weeks.
On the other hand, the Japanese yen saw a depreciation over a
much longer period of time with a continual upward movement in the
USD/JPYpairwellintothemiddleofApril.Thispriceactioncanbeseenin
Figure 10.2. After the FOMC meeting, the dollar proceeded to strengthen
another 300 pips over the next two weeks. Part of the reason for the
differences in these movements was that market watchers did not have
much faith in the Japanese economy, which had been teetering on the
edge of recession and showing no signs of positive economic expansion.
Therefore,thedollarstrengthhadamuchhigherimpactandanincreased
amountofstayingpowerwiththestrugglingyenthanwiththeconsistently
strongpound.
Of course, interest rates as well as other geopolitical macro events
are also important, but when weighing two equally compelling trades,
finding the best strong economy and weak economy pairing can lead to
higher chances of success. Examining crosses of the majors during this
timeperiodshowsanotherwaythatknowledgeofthestrengthofdifferent
currencypairingscanbeusedtoincrease profitability.Forexample, take
a look at Figure 10.3 and Figure 10.4. Following the FOMC meeting on
FIGURE 10.1 GBP/USDPostFedMeeting
(Source:www.eSignal.com)

P1:JYS
c10 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 15:40 Printer:Yettocome
FundamentalTradingStrategies 167
FIGURE 10.2 USD/JPYPostFedMeeting
(Source:www.eSignal.com)
FIGURE 10.3 AUD/JPYPostFedMeeting
(Source:www.eSignal.com)

P1:JYS
c10 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 15:40 Printer:Yettocome
168 DAYTRADINGANDSWINGTRADINGTHECURRENCYMARKET
FIGURE 10.4 EUR/JPYPostFedMeeting
(Source:www.eSignal.com)
March 22, both AUD/JPY and EUR/JPY sold off, but AUD/JPY rebounded
much quicker than EUR/JPY. One of the reasons why this might have
occurred could very well be the strong economy/weak economy com-
parison. The Eurozone economy experienced very weak growth in 2003,
2004, and into 2005. Australia, on the other hand, performed much better
andthroughout2004andthefirsthalfof2005Australiaofferedoneofthe
highest interest rates of the industrialized world. As a result, as indicated
in Figure 10.3, the currency pair rebounded much quicker than EUR/JPY
post FOMC. This is why when looking for a trade, it is important to keep
strongeconomy/weakeconomypairingsinmind.
LEVERAGED CARRY TRADE
Theleveragedcarrytradestrategyisoneofthefavoritetradingstrategies
ofglobalmacrohedgefundsandinvestmentbanks.Itisthequintessential
globalmacrotrade.Inanutshell,thecarrytradestrategyentailsgoinglong
or buying a high-yielding currency and selling or shorting a low-yielding
currency.Aggressivespeculatorswillleavetheexchangerateexposureun-
hedged, which means that the speculator is betting that the high-yielding
currencyisgoingtoappreciateinadditiontoearningtheinterestratedif-
ferential between the two currencies. For those who hedge the exchange
rate exposure, although interest rate differentials tend to be rather small,

P1:JYS
c10 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 15:40 Printer:Yettocome
FundamentalTradingStrategies 169
onthescaleof1to5percent,iftradersfactorin5to10timesleverage,the
profits from interest rates alone can be substantial. Just think about it: A
2.5percentinterestratedifferentialbecomes25percenton10timeslever-
age.Leveragecanalsobeveryriskyifnotmanagedproperlybecauseitcan
exacerbatelosses.Capitalappreciationgenerallyoccurswhenanumberof
tradersseethissameopportunityandalsopileintothetrade,whichends
uprallyingthecurrencypair.
Inforeignexchangetrading,thecarrytradeisaneasywaytotakead-
vantage of this basic economic principle that money is constantly flow-
inginandoutofdifferentmarkets,drivenbytheeconomiclawofsupply
and demand: markets that offer the highest returns on investment will in
general attract the most capital. Countries are no different—in the world
of international capital flows, nations that offer the highest interest rates
willgenerallyattractthemostinvestmentandcreatethemostdemandfor
theircurrencies.Averypopulartradingstrategy,thecarrytradeissimple
to master. If done correctly, it can earn a high return without an investor
takingonalotofrisk.However,carrytradesdocomewithsomerisk.The
chances of loss are great if you do not understand how, why, and when
carrytradesworkbest.
How Do Carry Trades Work?
Thewayacarrytradeworksistobuyacurrencythatoffersahighinterest
ratewhilesellingacurrencythatoffersalowinterestrate.Carrytradesare
profitablebecauseaninvestorisabletoearnthedifferenceininterest—or
spread—betweenthetwocurrencies.
An example: Assume that the Australian dollar offers an interest rate
of4.75percent,whiletheSwissfrancoffersaninterestrateof0.25percent.
Toexecutethecarrytrade,aninvestorbuystheAustraliandollarandsells
theSwissfranc.Indoingso,heorshecanearnaprofitof4.50percent(4.75
percent in interest earned minus 0.25 percent in interest paid), as long as
the exchange rate between Australian dollars and Swiss francs does not
change.Thisreturnisbasedonzeroleverage.Fivetimesleverageequalsa
22.5percentreturnonjusttheinterestratedifferential.Toillustrate,takea
lookatthefollowingexampleandFigure10.5toseehowaninvestorwould
actuallyexecutethecarrytrade:
ExecutingtheCarryTrade
BuyAUDandsellCHF(longAUD/CHF).
LongAUDposition:investorearns4.75percent.
ShortCHFposition:investorpays0.25percent.
Withspotrateheldconstant,profitis4.50percent,or450basispoints.

P1:JYS
c10 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 15:40 Printer:Yettocome
170 DAYTRADINGANDSWINGTRADINGTHECURRENCYMARKET
FIGURE 10.5 LeveragedCarryTradeExample
Ifthecurrencypairalsoincreasedinvalueduetoothertradersidenti-
fyingthisopportunity,thecarrytraderwouldearnnotonlyyieldbutalso
capitalappreciation.
Tosummarize:Acarrytradeworksbybuyingacurrencythatoffersa
highinterestratewhilesellingacurrencythatoffersalowinterestrate.
Why Do Carry Trades Work?
Carry trades work because of the constant movement of capital into and
outofcountries.Interestratesareabigreasonwhysomecountriesattract
a great deal of investment as opposed to others. If a country’s economy
is doing well (high growth, high productivity, low unemployment, rising
incomes, etc.), it will be able to offer those who invest in the country a
higherreturnoninvestment.Anotherwaytomakethispointistosaythat
countries with better growth prospects can afford to pay a higher rate of
interestonthemoneythatisinvestedinthem.
Investorsprefertoearnhigherinterestrates,soinvestorswhoarein-
terestedinmaximizingtheirprofitswillnaturallylookforinvestmentsthat
offerthemthehighestrateofreturn.Whenmakingadecisiontoinvestina
particularcurrency,aninvestorismorelikelytochoosetheonethatoffers
the highest rate of return, or interest rate. If several investors make this
exactsamedecision,thecountrywillexperienceaninflowofcapitalfrom
thoseseekingtoearnahighrateofreturn.
Whataboutcountriesthatarenotdoingwelleconomically?Countries
that have low growth and low productivity will not be able to offer in-
vestors a high rate of return on investment. In fact, there are some coun-
triesthathavesuchweakeconomies thattheyareunabletoofferanyre-
turnoninvestment,meaningthatinterestratesarezeroorveryclosetoit.

P1:JYS
c10 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 15:40 Printer:Yettocome
FundamentalTradingStrategies 171
Thisdifferencebetweencountriesthatofferhighinterestratesversus
countriesthatofferlowinterestratesiswhatmakescarrytradespossible.
Let’s take another look at the previous carry trade example, but in a
slightlymoredetailedway:
Imagine an investor in Switzerland who is earning an interest rate of
0.25 percent per year on her bank deposit of Swiss francs. At the same
time, a bank in Australia is offering 4.75 percent per year on a deposit
of Australian dollars. Seeing that interest rates are much higher with the
Australian bank, thisinvestor would liketofind away toearnthishigher
rateofinterestonhermoney.
Now imagine that the investor could somehow trade her deposit of
Swissfrancspaying0.25percentforadepositofAustraliandollarspaying
4.75percent.WhatshehaseffectivelydoneistosellherSwissfrancdeposit
andbuyanAustraliandollardeposit.Afterthistransactionshenowowns
anAustraliandollardepositthatpaysher4.75percentininterestperyear,
4.50percentmorethanshewasearningwithherSwissfrancdeposit.
In essence, this investor has just done a carry trade by “buying” an
Australiandollardeposit,and“selling”aSwissfrancdeposit.
Theneteffectofmillionsofpeopledoingthistransactionisthatcapital
flows out of Switzerland and into Australia as investors take their Swiss
francsandtradetheminforAustraliandollars.Australiaisabletoattract
more capital because of the higher rates it offers. This inflow of capital
increasesthevalueofthecurrency(seeFigure10.6).
To summarize: Carry trades are made possible by the differences in
interest rates between countries. Because they prefer to earn higher in-
terest rates, investors will look to buy and hold high-interest-rate-paying
currencies.
When Do Carry Trades Work Best?
Carry trades work better during certain times than others. In fact, carry
tradesarethemostprofitablewheninvestorsasagrouphaveaveryspe-
cificattitudetowardrisk.
FIGURE 10.6 EffectsofaCarryTrade:AUD/CHFCarryTradeExample1

P1:JYS
c10 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 15:40 Printer:Yettocome
172 DAYTRADINGANDSWINGTRADINGTHECURRENCYMARKET
How Much Risk Are You Willing to Take? People’s moods tend
to change over time—sometimes they may feel more daring and willing
to take chances, while other times they may be more timid and prone to
beingconservative.Investors,asagroup,arenodifferent.Sometimesthey
arewillingtomakeinvestmentsthatinvolveagoodamountofrisk,while
othertimestheyaremorefearfuloflossesandlooktoinvestinsaferassets.
In financial jargon, when investors as a whole are willing to take on
risk,wesaythattheyhavelowriskaversionor,inotherwords,areinrisk-
seekingmode.Incontrast,wheninvestorsaredrawntomoreconservative
investmentsandarelesswillingtotakeonrisk,wesaythattheyhavehigh
riskaversion.
Carrytradesarethemostprofitablewheninvestorshavelowriskaver-
sion. This statement makes sense when you consider what a carry trade
involves. To recap, a carry trade involves buying a currency that pays a
highinterestratewhilesellingacurrencythatpaysalowinterestrate.In
buyingthehigh-interest-ratecurrency,theinvestoristakingarisk—there
isagooddealofuncertaintyaroundwhethertheeconomyofthecountry
willcontinuetoperformwellandbeabletopayhighinterestrates.Indeed,
thereisaclearchancethatsomethingmighthappentopreventthecountry
frompayingthishighinterestrate.Ultimately,theinvestormustbewilling
totakethischance.
Ifinvestorsasawholewerenotwillingtotakeonthisrisk,thencapital
wouldnevermovefromonecountrytoanother,andthecarrytradeoppor-
tunity would not exist. Therefore, in order to work, carry trades require
thatinvestorsasagrouphavelowriskaversion,orarewillingtotakethe
riskofinvestinginthehigher-interest-ratecurrency.
To summarize: Carry trades have the most profit potential during
times when investors are willing to take the risk of investing in high-
interest-payingcurrencies.
When Will Carry Trades Not Work?
Sofarwehaveshownthatacarrytradewillworkbestwheninvestorshave
lowriskaversion.Whathappenswheninvestorshavehighriskaversion?
Carrytradesaretheleastprofitablewheninvestorshavehighriskaver-
sion. When investors have high risk aversion, they are less willing as a
group to take chances with their investments. Therefore, they would be
less willing to invest in riskier currencies that offer higher interest rates.
Instead,wheninvestorshavehighriskaversiontheywouldactuallyprefer
toputtheirmoneyin“safehaven”currenciesthatpaylowerinterestrates.
Thiswouldbeequivalenttodoingtheexactoppositeofacarrytrade—in
other words, investors are buying the currency with the low interest rate
andsellingthecurrencywiththehighinterestrate.

P1:JYS
c10 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 15:40 Printer:Yettocome
FundamentalTradingStrategies 173
Goingbacktoourearlierexample,assumetheinvestorsuddenlyfeels
uncomfortable holding a foreign currency, the Australian dollar. Now, in-
steadoflookingforthehigherinterestrate,sheismoreinterestedinkeep-
ing her investment safe. As a result, she swaps her Australian dollars for
morefamiliarSwissfrancs.
Theneteffectofmillionsofpeopledoingthistransactionisthatcapi-
talflowsoutofAustraliaandintoSwitzerlandasinvestorstaketheirAus-
traliandollarsandtradetheminforSwissfrancs.Becauseofthishighin-
vestor risk aversion, Switzerland attracts more capital due to the safety
its currency offers despite the lower interest rates. This inflow of capital
increasesthevalueoftheSwissfranc(seeFigure10.7).
To summarize: Carry trades will be the least profitable during times
wheninvestorsareunwillingtotaketheriskofinvestinginhigh-interest-
payingcurrencies.
Importance of Risk Aversion
Carry trades will generally be profitable when investors have low risk
aversion,andunprofitablewheninvestorshavehighriskaversion.There-
fore, before placing a carry trade it is critical to be aware of the
risk environment—whether investors as a whole have high or low risk
aversion—andwhenitchanges.
Increasing risk aversion is generally beneficial for low-interest-
rate-paying currencies: Sometimes the mood of investors will change
rapidly—investors’ willingness to make risky trades can change dramati-
callyfromonemomenttothenext.Oftentheselargeshiftsarecausedby
significantglobalevents.Wheninvestorriskaversiondoesrisequickly,the
resultisgenerallyalargecapitalinflowintolow-interest-rate-paying“safe
haven”currencies(seeFigure10.6).
For example, in the summer of 1998 the Japanese yen appreciated
againstthedollarbyover20percentinthespanoftwomonths,duemainly
FIGURE 10.7 EffectsofaCarryTradeWhenInvestorsHaveHighRiskAversion:
AUD/CHFCarryTradeExample2

P1:JYS
c10 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 15:40 Printer:Yettocome
174 DAYTRADINGANDSWINGTRADINGTHECURRENCYMARKET
totheRussiandebtcrisisandLong-TermCapitalManagementhedgefund
bailout. Similarly, just after the September 11, 2001, terrorist attacks the
Swiss franc rose by more than 7 percent against the dollar over a 10-day
period.
Thesesharpmovementsincurrencyvaluesoftenoccurwhenriskaver-
sionquicklychangesfromlowtohigh.Asaresult,whenriskaversionshifts
inthisway,acarrytradecanjustasquicklyturnfrombeingprofitableto
unprofitable. Conversely, as investor risk aversion goes from high to low,
carrytradesbecomemoreprofitable,asdetailedinFigure10.8.
How do you know if investors as a whole have high or low risk aver-
sion?Unfortunately,itisdifficulttomeasureinvestorriskaversionwitha
singlenumber.Onewaytogetabroadideaofriskaversionlevelsistolook
atthedifferentyieldsthatbondspay.Thewiderthedifference,orspread,
betweenbondsofdifferentcreditratings,thehighertheinvestorriskaver-
sion.Bond yieldscanbefoundinmost financial newspapers. Inaddition,
several large banks have developed their own measures of risk aversion
thatsignalwheninvestorsarewillingtotakerisksandwhentheyarenot.
Other Things to Bear in Mind When Considering
a Carry Trade
Whileriskaversionisoneofthemostimportantthingstoconsiderbefore
making a carry trade, it is not the only one. The following are some addi-
tionalissuestobeawareof.
FIGURE 10.8 RiskAversionandCarryTradeProfitability

P1:JYS
c10 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 15:40 Printer:Yettocome
FundamentalTradingStrategies 175
Low-Interest-RateCurrencyAppreciation Byenteringintoacarry
trade,aninvestorisabletoearnaprofitfromtheinterestratedifference,or
spread, between a high-interest-rate currency and a low-interest-rate cur-
rency. However, the carry trade can turn unprofitable if for some reason
(like the earlier risk aversion example) the low-interest-rate currency ap-
preciatesbyalargeamount.
Aside from increases in investor risk aversion, improving economic
conditionswithinalow-interest-payingcountrycanalsocauseitscurrency
toappreciate.Anidealcarrytradeinvolvesalow-interestcurrencywhose
economy is weak and has low expectations for growth. If the economy
were to improve, however, the country might then be able to offer in-
vestorsahigherrateofreturnthroughincreasedinterestrates.Ifthiswere
tooccur—againusingtheearlierexample,saythatSwitzerlandincreased
the interest rates it offered—then investors may take advantage of these
higher rates by investing in Swiss francs. As seen in Figure 10.7, an ap-
preciationoftheSwissfrancwouldnegativelyaffecttheprofitabilityofthe
Australiandollar–Swissfranccarrytrade.(Attheveryleast,higherinterest
rates in Switzerland would negatively affect the carry trade’s profitability
byloweringtheinterestratespread.)
To give another example, this same sequence of events may cur-
rently be unfolding for the Japanese yen. Given its zero interest rates,
the Japanese yen has for a very long time been an ideal low-interest-rate
currency to use in carry trades (known as “yen carry trades”). This situa-
tion, however, may be changing. Increased optimism about the Japanese
economyhasrecentlyledtoanincreaseintheJapanesestockmarket.In-
creasedinvestordemandforJapanesestocksandcurrencyhascausedthe
yen to appreciate, and this yen appreciation negatively affects the prof-
itability of carry trades like Australian dollar (high interest rate) versus
Japaneseyen.
If investors continue to buy the yen, the “yen carry trade” will grow
moreandmoreunprofitable.Thisfurtherillustratesthefactthatwhenthe
low-interest-ratecurrencyinacarrytrade(thecurrencybeingsold)appre-
ciates,itnegativelyaffectstheprofitabilityofthecarrytrade.
Trade Balances Country trade balances (the difference between im-
ports and exports) can also affect the profitability of a carry trade. We
have shown that when investors have low risk aversion, capital will flow
fromthelow-interest-rate-payingcurrencytothehigh-interest-rate-paying
currency(seeFigure10.6).This,however,doesnotalwayshappen.
Tounderstandwhy,thinkaboutthesituationintheUnitedStates.The
United States currently pays historically low interest rates, yet it attracts
investmentfromothercountries,evenwheninvestorshavelowriskaver-
sion(i.e.,theyshouldbeinvestinginthehigh-interest-ratecountries).Why

P1:JYS
c10 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 15:40 Printer:Yettocome
176 DAYTRADINGANDSWINGTRADINGTHECURRENCYMARKET
doesthisoccur?TheanswerisbecausetheUnitedStatesrunsahugetrade
deficit (itsimports aregreater than itsexports)—adeficit that must be fi-
nanced by other countries. Regardless of the interest rates it offers, the
UnitedStatesattractscapitalflowstofinanceitstradedeficit.
The point of this example is to show that even when investors have
lowriskaversion,largetradeimbalancescancausealow-interest-ratecur-
rencytoappreciate(asinFigure10.7).Andwhenthelow-interest-ratecur-
rency in a carry trade (the currency being sold) appreciates, it negatively
affectstheprofitabilityofthecarrytrade.
Time Horizon In general, a carry trade is a long-term strategy. Before
entering into a carry trade, an investor should be willing to commit to a
timehorizonofatleastsixmonths.Thiscommitmenthelpstomakesure
thatthetradewillnotbeaffectedbythe“noise”ofshorter-termcurrency
price movements. Also, not using excessive leverage for carry trades will
allowtraderstoholdontotheirpositionslongerandtobetterweathermar-
ketfluctuationsbynotgettingstoppedout.
Tosummarize:Carrytradeinvestorsshouldbeawareoffactorssuch
ascurrencyappreciation,tradebalances,andtimehorizonbeforeplacing
atrade. Any or all of these factors can cause a seemingly profitable carry
tradetobecomeunprofitable.
FUNDAMENTAL TRADING
STRATEGY: STAYING ON TOP OF
MACROECONOMIC EVENTS
Short-termtradersseemtobefocusedonlyontheeconomicreleaseofthe
week and how it will impact their day trading activities. This works well
formanytraders,butitisalsoimportantnottolosesightofthebigmacro
eventsthatmaybebrewingintheeconomy—ortheworldforthatmatter.
The reason is because large-scale macroeconomic events will move mar-
ketsandwillmovethembigtime.Theirimpactgoesbeyondasimpleprice
changeforadayortwobecausedependingontheirsizeandscope,these
occurrenceshavethepotentialtoreshapethefundamentalperceptionto-
wardacurrencyformonthsorevenyearsatatime.Eventssuchaswars,
political uncertainty, natural disasters, and major international meetings
are so potent due to their irregularity that they have widespread psycho-
logical and physical impacts on the currency market. With these events
come both currencies that appreciate vastly and currencies that depreci-
atejustasdramatically.Therefore,keepingontopofglobaldevelopments,
understandingtheunderlyingdirectionofmarketsentimentbeforeandaf-
ter these events occur, and anticipating them could be very profitable, or
atleastcanhelppreventsignificantlosses.

P1:JYS
c10 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 15:40 Printer:Yettocome
FundamentalTradingStrategies 177
KnowWhenBigEventsOccur
(cid:1)
SignificantG-7orG-8financeministersmeetings.
(cid:1)
Presidentialelections.
(cid:1)
Importantsummits.
(cid:1)
Majorcentralbankmeetings.
(cid:1)
Potentialchangestocurrencyregimes.
(cid:1)
Possibledebtdefaultsbylargecountries.
(cid:1)
Possiblewarsasaresultofrisinggeopoliticaltensions.
(cid:1)
FederalReservechairman’ssemiannualtestimonytoCongressonthe
economy.
The best way to highlight the significance of these events is through
examples.
G-7 Meeting, Dubai, September 2003
The countries that constitute the G-7 are the United States, United King-
dom,Japan,Canada,Italy,Germany,andFrance.Collectively,thesecoun-
tries account for two-thirds of the world’s total economic output. Not all
G-7 meetings are important. The only time the market really hones in on
the G-7 finance ministers meeting is when big changes are expected. The
G-7financeministersmeetingonSeptember22,2003,wasaveryimportant
turningpointforthemarkets.Thedollarcollapsed significantlyfollowing
the meeting at which the G-7 finance ministers wanted to see “more flex-
ibility in exchange rates.” Despite the rather tame nature of these words,
themarketinterpretedthislinetobeamajorshiftinpolicy.Thelasttime
changestothisdegreehadbeenmadewasbackin2000.
In2000,themarketpaidparticularattentiontotheupcomingmeeting
becausetherewasstronginterventionintheEUR/USDthedaybeforethe
meeting. The meeting in September 2003 was also important because the
U.S.tradedeficitwasballooningandbecomingahugeissue.TheEUR/USD
borethebruntofthedollardepreciationwhileJapanandChinawereinter-
veningaggressivelyintheircurrencies.Asaresult,itwaswidelyexpected
thattheG-7financeministersasawholewouldissueastatementthatwas
highly critical of Japan’s and China’s intervention policies. Leading up to
the meeting, the U.S. dollar had already begun to sell off, as indicated by
the chart in Figure 10.9. At the time of the announcement, the EUR/USD
shot up 150 pips. Though this initial move was not very substantial, be-
tweenSeptember2003andFebruary2004(thenextG-7meeting),thedol-
lar fell 8 percent on a trade-weighted basis, 9 percent against the British
pound,11percentagainsttheeuro,7percentagainsttheyen,and1.5per-
centagainsttheCanadiandollar.Toputthepercentagesintoperspective,a
moveof11percentisequivalenttoapproximately1,100pips.Thereforethe

P1:JYS
c10 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 15:40 Printer:Yettocome
178 DAYTRADINGANDSWINGTRADINGTHECURRENCYMARKET
FIGURE 10.9 EUR/USDPostG-7Chart
(Source:www.eSignal.com)
longer-termimpactismuchmoresignificantthantheimmediateimpact,as
theeventitselfhastheabilitytochangetheoverallsentimentinthemar-
ket.Figure10.9isaweeklychartoftheEUR/USDthatillustrateshowthe
currencypairperformedfollowingtheSeptember22,2003,G-7meeting.
Political Uncertainty: 2004 U.S.
Presidential Election
Another example of a major event impacting the currency market is the
2004 U.S. presidential election. In general, political instability causes per-
ceivedweaknessincurrencies.Thehotlycontestedpresidentialelectionin
November 2004 combined with the differences in the candidates’ stances
on the growing budget deficit resulted in overall dollar bearishness. The
sentiment was exacerbated even further given the lack of international
support for the incumbent president (George W. Bush) due to the admin-
istration’sdecisiontooverthrowSaddamHussein.Asaresult,inthethree
weeks leading up to the election, the euro rose 600 pips against the U.S.
dollar.ThiscanbeseeninFigure10.10.WithaBushvictorybecomingin-
creasinglyclearandlaterconfirmed,thedollarsoldoffagainstthemajors
asthemarketlookedaheadtowhatwouldprobablyendupbeingthemain-
tenanceofthestatusquo.Onthedayfollowingtheelection,theEUR/USD
roseanother200pipsandthencontinuedtoriseanadditional700pipsbe-
forepeakingsixweekslater.Thisentiremovetookplaceoverthecourse

P1:JYS
c10 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 15:40 Printer:Yettocome
FundamentalTradingStrategies 179
FIGURE 10.10 EUR/USDU.S.Election
(Source:www.eSignal.com)
oftwomonths,whichmayseemlikeeternitytomany,butthismacroeco-
nomiceventreallyshapedthemarkets;forthosewhowerefollowingit,big
profits could have been made. However, this is important even for short-
termtradersbecausegiventhatthemarketwasbearishdollarsingeneral
leading up to the U.S. presidential election, a more prudent trade would
have been to look for opportunities to buy the EUR/USD on dips rather
thantryingtosellralliesandlookfortops.
Wars: U.S. War in Iraq
Geopoliticalriskssuchaswarscanalsohaveapronouncedimpactonthe
currency market. Figure 10.11 shows that between December 2002 and
February 2003, the dollar depreciated 9 percent against the Swiss franc
(USD/CHF) in the months leading up to the invasion of Iraq. The dollar
soldoffbecausethewaritselfwasincrediblyunpopularamongtheinter-
nationalcommunity.TheSwissfrancwasoneoftheprimarybeneficiaries
due to the country’s political neutrality and safe haven status. Between
February and March, the market began to believe that the inevitable war
wouldturnintoaquickanddecisiveU.S.victory,sotheybegantounwind
the war trade. This eventually led to a 3 percent rally in USD/CHF as in-
vestorsexitedtheirshortdollarpositions.
Each of these events caused large-scale movement in the currency
markets, which makes them important events to follow for all types of

P1:JYS
c10 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 15:40 Printer:Yettocome
180 DAYTRADINGANDSWINGTRADINGTHECURRENCYMARKET
FIGURE 10.11 USD/CHFWarTrade
(Source:www.eSignal.com)
traders.Keepingabreastofbroadmacroeconomiceventscanhelptraders
makesmarterdecisionsandpreventthemfromfadinglargeuncertainties
that may be brewing in the background. Most of these events are talked
about, debated, and anticipated many months in advance by economists,
currencyanalysts,andtheinternationalcommunityingeneral.Theworld
changesandcurrencytradersneedtobepreparedforthat.
COMMODITY PRICES AS A LEADING
INDICATOR
Commodities, namely gold and oil, have a substantial connection to the
FX market. Therefore, understanding the nature of the relationship be-
tween them and currencies can help traders gauge risk, forecast price
changes, as well as understand exposure. Even if commodities seem like
a wholly alien concept, gold and oil especially tend to move based on
similarfundamentalfactorsthataffectcurrencymarkets.Aswehavepre-
viously discussed, there are four major currencies considered to be com-
modity currencies—the Australian dollar, the Canadian dollar, the New
Zealanddollar,andtheSwissfranc.TheAUD,CAD,NZD,andCHFallhave
solidcorrelationswithgoldprices;naturalgoldreservesandcurrencylaws
in these countries result in almost mirror-like movements. The CAD also
tends to move somewhat in line with oil prices; however, the connection
here is much more complicated and fickle. Each currency has a specific

P1:JYS
c10 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 15:40 Printer:Yettocome
FundamentalTradingStrategies 181
correlation and reason as to why its actions reflect commodity prices so
well.Knowledgeofthefundamentalsbehindthesemovements,theirdirec-
tion,andthestrengthoftheparallelcouldbeaneffectivewaytodiscover
trendsinbothmarkets.
The Relationship
Gold Beforeanalyzingtherelationshipgoldhaswiththecommoditycur-
rencies,itisimportanttofirstunderstandtheconnectionbetweengoldand
the U.S. dollar. Although the United States is the world’s second largest
producerofgold(behindSouthAfrica),arallyingoldpricesdoesnotpro-
duce an appreciation of the dollar. Actually, when the dollar goes down,
goldtendstogoup,andviceversa.Thisseeminglyillogicaloccurrenceisa
by-productoftheperceptioninvestorsholdofgold.Duringunstablegeopo-
litical times, traders tend to shy away from the dollar and instead turn to
gold as a safe haven for their investments. In fact, many traders call gold
the“antidollar.”Therefore,ifthedollardepreciates,goldgetspushedupas
waryinvestorsflockfromthedeclininggreenbacktothesteadycommod-
ity.TheAUD/USD,NZD/USD,andUSD/CHFcurrencypairstendtomirror
gold’smovementstheclosestbecausetheseothercurrenciesallhavesig-
nificantnaturalandpoliticalconnectionstothemetal.
StartingintheSouthPacific,theAUD/USDhasaverystrongpositive
correlation(0.80)withgoldasshowninFigure10.12;therefore,whenever
goldpricesgoup,theAUD/USDalsotendstogoupastheAustraliandollar
appreciatesagainsttheU.S.dollar.Thereasonforthisrelationshipisthat
Australiaistheworld’sthirdlargestproducer of gold,exporting about $5
billionworthofthepreciousmetalannually.Becauseofthis,thecurrency
pairamplifiestheeffectsofgoldpricestwofold.Ifinstabilityiscausingan
increase in prices, this probably signals that the USD has already begun
to depreciate. The pairing will then be pushed down further as importers
of gold demand more of Australia’s currency to cover higher costs. The
New Zealand dollar tends to follow the same path in the AUD/USD pair-
ing because New Zealand’s economy is very closely linked to Australia’s.
The correlation in this pairing is also approximately 0.80 with gold (see
Figure10.13forthechart).TheCAD/USDhasanevenstrongercorrelation
with gold prices at 0.84, caused in large part by analogous reasons to the
AUD’sconnection;Canadaisthefifthlargestexporterofgold.
InEurope,Switzerland’scurrencyhasastrongrelationshipwithgold
prices as well. However, the CHF/USD pairing’s 0.88 correlation with the
metal is caused by different reasons than the NZD’s, AUD’s, and CAD’s
connections. Switzerland does not have substantial natural gold reserves
like Australia or Canada and therefore it is not a notable exporter of the
metal. However, the Swiss franc is one of the few major currencies that
still adheres to the gold standard. A full 25 percent of Switzerland’s bank

P1:JYS
c10 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 15:40 Printer:Yettocome
182 DAYTRADINGANDSWINGTRADINGTHECURRENCYMARKET
DSU/DUA
AUD/USD vs. Price of Gold 2002–2008
5.0
0001
008
006
004
dloG
fo
ecirP
AUD/USD (lhs)
Price of Gold (rhs)
2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008
9.0
8.0
7.0
6.0
FIGURE 10.12 AUD/USDandGold
issue notes are backed in gold reserves. This solid currency base makes
it no mystery as to why the CHF is perceived as a currency safe haven
in unstable times. During times of geopolitical uncertainties, the Swissie
tendstorally.AnexampleofthiscouldbefoundintheU.S.builduptothe
warinIraq.ManyinvestorsdrewtheirmoneyoutoftheUSDandinvested
heavilyinbothgoldandtheCHF.
Thus,atraderwhonotesarisingtrendingoldprices(orinothermet-
als such as copper or nickel) might be wise to go long any one of the
four commodity currencies instead. One interesting incentive to go long
theAUD/USD instead ofgold isthe unique abilityofexpressing the same
viewbutalsobeingabletoearnpositivecarry.Goldisalsousuallyasolid
indicatoroftheoverallpictureinthemetalsmarkets.
Oil Oil prices have a huge impact on the world economy, affecting
both consumers and producers. Therefore the correlation between this

P1:JYS
c10 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 15:40 Printer:Yettocome
FundamentalTradingStrategies 183
DSU/DZN
NZD/USD vs. Price of Gold 2002–2008
8.0
7.0
6.0
5.0
4.0
0001
008
006
004
dloG
fo
ecirP
NZD/USD (lhs)
Price of Gold (rhs)
2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008
FIGURE 10.13 NZD/USDandGold
commodityandcurrencypricesismuchmorecomplexandlessstablethan
thatofgold.Infact,outofallofthecommoditycurrencies,onlyone(the
CAD)hasanysemblanceofaconnectionwithoilprices.
TheUSD/CADhasacorrelationof–0.4,afairlyweaknumberindicat-
ingthatarallyinoilpriceswillresultinarallyintheCanadiandollaronly
someofthetime.Throughoutthesecondhalfof2004andfirsthalfof2005,
this correlation has been much stronger. Although Canada is the world’s
fourteenthlargestproducerofoil,oil’seffectonitseconomyismuchmore
all-encompassing than gold’s. While gold prices do not have a substantial
spillover intootherareas, oilpricesmostdefinitely do.Canada especially
hastroubleduetoitscoldclimate,whichcreatesalargeamountofdemand
forheatingoilmostoftheyear.Moreover,Canadaisparticularlysuscepti-
bletopoorforeigneconomicconditionsbecauseitdependsheavilyonex-
ports.Therefore,oilhasaverymixedeffectontheCanadiandollar.Most
of this is dependent upon how U.S. consumer demand responds to rising

P1:JYS
c10 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 15:40 Printer:Yettocome
184 DAYTRADINGANDSWINGTRADINGTHECURRENCYMARKET
oilprices.Canada’seconomyiscloselytiedtoitssouthernneighborsince
85percentofitsexportsaredestinedfortheUnitedStates.
Trading Opportunity
Nowthattherelationshipshavebeenexplained,therearetwowaystoex-
ploitthisknowledge.TakingalookatFigures10.12,10.13,and10.14,you
canseethatgenerallyspeaking,commoditypricesarealeadingindicator
for currency prices. This is most apparent in the NZD/USD–gold relation-
ship shown in Figure 10.13 and the CAD/USD–oil relationship shown in
Figure 10.14. As such, commodity block traders can monitor gold and oil
pricestoforecastmovementsinthecurrencypairs.Thesecondwaytoex-
ploit this knowledge is to parlay the same view using different products,
which does help to diversify risk a bit even with the high correlation. In
fact,thereisonekeyadvantagetoexpressingtheviewincurrenciesover
commodities, and that is that it offers traders the ability to earn interest
DAC/DSU
fo
esrevnI
Inverse of USD/CAD vs. Price of Oil 2002–2008
1.1
0.1
9.0
8.0
7.0
021
001
08
06
04
02
liO
fo
ecirP
Inverse of USD/CAD (lhs)
Price of Oil (rhs)
2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008
FIGURE 10.14 CAD/USDandOil

P1:JYS
c10 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 15:40 Printer:Yettocome
FundamentalTradingStrategies 185
on their positions based on the interest rate differential between the two
countries,whilegoldandoilfuturespositionsdonot.
USING BOND SPREADS AS A LEADING
INDICATOR FOR FX
Anytradercanattestthatinterestratesareanintegralpartofinvestment
decisions and can drive markets in either direction. FOMC rate decisions
arethesecondlargestcurrency-market-movingrelease,behindunemploy-
ment data. The effects of interest rate changes have not only short-term
implications, but also long-term consequences on the currency markets.
One central bank’s rate decision can affect more than a single pairing in
theinterrelatedforexmarket.Yielddifferentialsfixedincomeinstruments
suchasLondonInterbankOfferedRates(LIBOR)and10-yearbondyields
canbeusedasleadingindicatorsforcurrencymovements.InFXtrading,
an interest rate differential is the difference between the interest rate on
a base currency (appearing first in the pair) less the interest rate on the
quotedcurrency(appearingsecondinthepair).Eachdayat5:00p.m.EST,
the close of the day for currency markets, funds are either paid out or
received to adjust for interest rate differences. Understanding the corre-
lation between interest rate differentials and currency pairs can be very
profitable. In addition to central bank overnight rate decisions, expected
future overnight rates along with the expected timing of rate changes are
alsocriticaltocurrencypairmovements.Thereasonwhythisworksisthat
themajorityofinternationalinvestorsareyieldseekers.Largeinvestment
banks,hedgefunds,andinstitutionalinvestorshavetheabilitycapital-wise
to access global markets. Therefore, they are actively shifting funds from
lower-yieldingassetstohigher-yieldingassets.
Interest Rate Differentials: Leading Indicator,
Coincident Indicator, or Lagging Indicator?
Since most currency traders consider present and future interest rate
differentialswhenmakinginvestmentdecisions,thereshouldtheoretically
be some correlation between yield differences and currency pair prices.
However, do currency pair prices predict rate decisions, or do rate de-
cisions affect currency pair prices? Leading indicators are economic
indicators that predict future events; coincident indicators are eco-
nomic indicators that vary with economic events; lagging indicators are
economicindicatorsthatfollowaneconomicevent.Forinstance,ifinter-
est rate differentials predict future currency pair prices, interest rate dif-
ferentialsaresaidtobeleadingindicatorsofcurrencypairprices.Whether

P1:JYS
c10 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 15:40 Printer:Yettocome
186 DAYTRADINGANDSWINGTRADINGTHECURRENCYMARKET
interestratedifferentialsarealeading, coincident, orlaggingindicator of
currencypairpricesdependsonhowmuchtraderscareaboutfuturerates
versus current rates. Assuming efficient markets, if currency traders care
only about current interest rates and not about future rates, one would
expectacoincidentrelationship.Ifcurrencytradersconsiderbothcurrent
andfuturerates,onewouldexpectinterestratedifferentialstobealeading
indicatoroffuturecurrencyprices.
Theruleofthumbisthatwhentheyieldspreadincreasesinfavorofa
certaincurrencythatcurrencywillgenerallyappreciateagainstothercur-
rencies. For example, if the current Australian 10-year government bond
yield is 5.50 percent and the current U.S. 10-year government bond yield
is2.00percent,thentheyieldspreadwouldbe350basispointsinfavorof
Australia.IfAustraliaraiseditsinterestratesby25basispointsandthe10-
yeargovernmentbondyieldappreciatedto5.75percent,thenthenewyield
spreadwouldbe375basispointsinfavorofAustralia.Basedonhistorical
evidence, the Australian dollar is also expected to appreciate against the
U.S.dollarinthisscenario.
BasedonastudyofthreeyearsofempiricaldatastartingfromJanuary
2002andendingJanuary2005,wefindthatinterestratedifferentialstend
tobealeadingindicatorofcurrencypairs.Figures10.15,10.16,and10.17
aregraphicalrepresentationsofthisfinding.
1.00 3.00
0.95
2.50
0.90
2.00
0.85
1.50
1.00
0.50
0.00
DSU/DUA
laitnereffiD
etaR
.tnI
AUD/USD vs. Interest Rate Differential
0.80
0.75
0.70
0.65
AUD/USD Bond Spread
0.60
1/2/2004 5/21/2004 10/8/2004 2/25/2005 7/15/2005 12/2/2005 4/21/2006 9/8/2006 1/26/2007 6/15/2007 11/2/2007 3/21/2008
Date
FIGURE 10.15 AUD/USDandBondSpread

P1:JYS
c10 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 15:40 Printer:Yettocome
FundamentalTradingStrategies 187
GBP/USD vs. Interest Rate Differential
GBP/USD Bond Spread
Date
DSU/PBG
laitnereffiD
etaR
.tnI
2.08 1.20
2.05
1.00
2.02
1.99 0.80
1.96
1.93 0.60
1.90
0.40
1.87
1.84 0.20
1.81
1.78 0.00
1.75
–0.20
1.72
1.69 –0.40
1.66
1.63 –0.60
1.60
–0.80
1/2/2004 5/21/2004 10/8/2004 2/25/2005 7/15/2005 12/2/2005 4/21/2006 9/8/2006 1/26/2007 6/15/2007 11/2/2007 3/21/2008
FIGURE 10.16 GBP/USDandBondSpread
USD/CAD vs Interest Rate Differential
1.40
1.35
1.30
1.25
1.20
USD/CAD Bond Spread
Date
DAC/DSU
laitnereffiD
etaR
.tnI
1.45 0.60
0.40
0.20
0.00
1.15 –0.20
1.10
–0.40
1.05
1.00 –0.60
0.95
–0.80
0.90
0.85 –1.00
1/2/2004 5/21/2004 10/8/2004 2/25/2005 7/15/2005 12/2/2005 4/21/2006 9/8/2006 1/26/2007 6/15/2007 11/2/2007 3/21/2008
FIGURE 10.17 USD/CADandBondSpread

P1:JYS
c10 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 15:40 Printer:Yettocome
188 DAYTRADINGANDSWINGTRADINGTHECURRENCYMARKET
These figures show three examples of currency pairs where bond
spreads have the clearest leading-edge correlation. As one would expect
fromthefactthattraderstradeonavarietyofinformationandnotjustin-
terestrates,thecorrelation,thoughgood,isnotperfect.Ingeneral,interest
ratedifferentialanalysisseemstoworkbetteroveralongerperiodoftime.
However,shiftsinsentimentfortheoutlookforthepathofinterestrates
overtheshortertermcanstillbealeadingindicatorforcurrencyprices.
Calculating Interest Rate Differentials and
Following the Currency Pair Trends
The best way to use interest rate differentials for trading is by keeping
trackofone-monthLIBORratesor10-yearbondyieldsinMicrosoftExcel.
These rates are publicly available on web sites such as Bloomberg.com.
Interest rate differentials are then calculated by subtracting the yield of
the second currency in the pair from the yield of the first. It is important
to make sure that interest rate differentials are calculated in the order in
whichtheyappearforthepair.Forinstance,theinterestratedifferentials
inGBP/USDshouldbethe10-yeargiltrateminusthe10-yearU.S.Treasury
noterate.Foreurodata,usedatafromtheGerman10-yearbond.Forma
tablethatlookssimilartotheoneshowninTable10.1.
After sufficient data is gathered, you can graph currency pair values
and yields using a graph with two axes to see any correlations or trends.
The sample graphs in Figures 10.15, 10.16, and 10.17 use the date in the
x-axisandcurrencypairpriceandinterestratedifferentialsontwoy-axis
graphs.Tofullyutilizethisdataintrading,youwanttopaycloseattention
totrendsintheinterestratedifferentialsofthecurrencypairsyoutrade.
TABLE10.1 BondSpreads
Date
1/1/2004 1/1/2005 1/1/2006 1/1/2007 5/1/2008
U.S.10-yearyield 4.38 4.27 4.39 4.70 3.86
GBP/USD 1.7705 1.9234 1.7706 1.9262 1.9708
U.K.10-yearyield 4.86 4.54 4.10 4.80 4.74
U.K.–U.S.ratedifferential −0.48 −0.27 0.29 −0.10 −0.89
USD–JPY 107.41 102.52 114.38 118.6 105.37
JPY10-yearyield 1.37 1.41 1.48 1.69 1.65
U.S.–JPYratedifferential 3.01 2.86 2.91 3.02 2.21

P1:JYS
c10 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 15:40 Printer:Yettocome
FundamentalTradingStrategies 189
FUNDAMENTAL TRADING STRATEGY:
RISK REVERSALS
Risk reversals are a useful fundamentals-based tool to add to your mix
of indicators for trading. One of the weaknesses of currency trading is
the lack of volume data and accurate indicators for gauging sentiment.
The only publicly available report on positioning is the “Commitments of
Traders” report published by the Commodity Futures Trading Commis-
sion, and even that is released with a three-day delay. A useful alterna-
tive is to use risk reversals, which are provided on a real-time basis on
the Forex Capital Markets (FXCM) news plug-in, under Options. As we
first introduced in Chapter 8, a risk reversal consists of a pair of options
forthesamecurrency(acallandaput).Basedonput/callparity,farout-
of-the-moneyoptions(25delta)withthesameexpirationandstrikeprice
should also have the same implied volatility. However, in reality this is
not true. Sentiment is embedded in volatilities, which makes risk rever-
sals a good tool to gauge market sentiment. A number strongly in favor
ofcallsoverputsindicatesthatthereismoredemandforcallsthanputs.
The opposite is also true: a number strongly in favor of puts over calls
indicates that there is a premium built in put options as a result of the
higher demand. If risk reversals are near zero, this indicates that there is
indecision among bulls and bears and that there is no strong bias in the
markets.
What Does a Risk Reversal Table Look Like?
WeshowedariskreversaltablebeforeinChapter8,(Table8.3),butwant
todescribeitagaintomakesurethatitiswellunderstood.Eachoftheab-
breviationsforthecurrencyoptionsarelisted,and,asindicated,mostrisk
reversalsarenearzero,whichindicatesnosignificantbias.ForUSD/JPY,
though,thelonger-termriskreversalsindicatethatthemarketisstrongly
favoringyencalls(JC)anddollarputs.
How Can You Use This Information?
For easier graphing and tracking purposes, we use positive and negative
integersforcallandputpremiums,respectively,inFigure10.18.Therefore
apositivenumberindicatesthatcallsarepreferredoverputsandthatthe
marketasawholeisexpectinganupwardmovementintheunderlyingcur-
rency. Likewise, anegative number indicates thatputsarepreferredover
callsandthatthemarketisexpectingadownwardmoveintheunderlying
currency. Used prudently, risk reversals can be a valuable tool in judging

P1:JYS
c10 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 15:40 Printer:Yettocome
190 DAYTRADINGANDSWINGTRADINGTHECURRENCYMARKET
FIGURE 10.18 EUR/USDandRiskReversalChart
market positioning. While the signals generated by a risk reversal system
willnotbecompletelyaccurate,theycanspecifywhenthemarketisbullish
orbearish.
Riskreversalsbecomequiteimportantwhenthevaluesareatextreme
levels. We identify extreme levels as one standard deviation plus or mi-
nustheaverageriskreversal.Whenriskreversalsareattheselevels,they
give off contrarian signals, indicating that a currency pair is overbought
oroversoldbasedonsentiment.Theindicatorisperceivedasacontrarian
signal because when the entire market is positioned for a rise in a given
currency, it makes it that much harder for the currency to rally, and that
mucheasierforittofallonnegativenewsorevents.Asaresult,astrongly
negativenumberimpliesoversoldconditions,whereasastronglypositive
number would imply overbought conditions. Although the buy or sell sig-
nalsproducedbyriskreversalsarenotperfect,theycanconveyadditional
informationusedtomaketradingdecisions.
Examples
Our first example of the EUR/USD is shown in Figure 10.18. Visually
you can see that 25-delta risk reversals have been a leading indicator for
EUR/USDpriceaction.Whenriskreversalsplungedto–1.39onSeptember
30, it was a signal that the market had a strong bearish bias. This proved
to be a reliable contrarian indicator of what eventually became a 300-pip

P1:JYS
c10 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 15:40 Printer:Yettocome
FundamentalTradingStrategies 191
reboundintheEUR/USDoverthecourseofninedays.Whenpricesspiked
onceagainalmostimmediatelyto0.67infavorofacontinuationoftheup
move,theEUR/USDprovedbullswrongbyengaginginanevendeepersell-
off.Althoughthereweremanyinstancesofriskreversalssignalingcontra-
trendmovesonasmallerscale,thenextmajorspikecameayearlater.On
August16,riskreversalswereat1.43,whichmeantthatbullishsentiment
hit a very high level. This preceded a 260-pip drop in the EUR/USD over
thecourseofthreeweeks.Whenriskreversalsspikedonceagainamonth
later to 1.90, we saw another top in the EUR/USD, which later became a
muchdeeperdescent.
ThenextexampleistheGBP/USD.AscanbeseeninFigure10.19,risk
reversals do a very good job of identifying extreme overbought and over-
sold conditions. Buy and sell levels are added to the GBP/USD chart for
furtherclarificationofhowriskreversalscanalsobeusedtotimemarket
turns. With the lack of price and volume data togive us a sense of where
the market is positioned, risk reversals can be helpful in gauging general
marketsentiment.
USING OPTION VOLATILITIES TO TIME
MARKET MOVEMENTS
Using option volatilities to time foreign exchange spot movements is a
topic that we touched upon briefly in Chapter 8. Since this is a very use-
ful strategythat isafavoriteamong professional hedge funds, itcertainly
FIGURE 10.19 GBP/USDRiskReversalChart

P1:JYS
c10 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 15:40 Printer:Yettocome
192 DAYTRADINGANDSWINGTRADINGTHECURRENCYMARKET
warrantsamoredetailedexplanation.Impliedvolatilitycanbedefinedas
a measure of a currency’s expected fluctuation over a given time period
basedonpastpricefluctuations.Thisistypicallycalculatedbytakingthe
historic annual standard deviation of daily price changes. Future prices
helptodetermineimpliedvolatility,whichisusedtocalculateoptionpre-
miums.Althoughthissoundsfairlycomplicated,itsapplicationisnot.Ba-
sically,optionvolatilitiesmeasuretherateandmagnitudeofacurrency’s
price over a given period of time based on historical fluctuations. There-
fore,iftheaveragedailytradingrangeoftheEUR/USDcontractedfrom100
pipsto60pipsandstayedtherefortwoweeks,inalllikelihoodshort-term
volatility also contracted significantly compared to longer-term volatility
duringthesametimeperiod.
Rules
Asaguideline,therearetwosimplerulestofollow.Thefirstoneisthatif
short-termoptionvolatilitiesaresignificantlylowerthanlong-termvolatil-
ities,oneshouldexpectabreakout,thoughthedirectionofthebreakoutis
notdefinedbythisrule.Second,ifshort-termoptionvolatilitiesaresignif-
icantlyhigherthanlong-termvolatilities,oneshouldexpectareversionto
tradingrange.
Why Do These Rules Work?
During a ranging period, implied option volatilities are either low or on
thedecline.Theinspirationfortheserulesisthatinperiodsofrangetrad-
ing, there tends to be little movement. We care most about when option
volatilities drop sharply, which could be a sign that a profitable breakout
is under way. When short-term volatility is above long-term volatility, it
means that near-term price action is more volatile than the long-term av-
erage price action. This suggests that the ranges will eventually contract
backtowardaveragelevels.Thetrendismostnoticeableinempiricaldata.
Hereareafewexamplesofwhenthisruleaccuratelypredictedtrendsor
breaks.
Before analyzing the charts, it is important to note that we use one-
monthvolatilitiesasourshort-termvolatilitiesandthree-monthvolatilities
asourlonger-termvolatilities.
In the AUD/CAD volatility chart in Figure 10.20, for the most part
shorter-termvolatilityisfairlyclosetothelonger-termvolatility.However,
the first arrow shows an instance where short-term volatility spiked well
belowlong-termvolatility,which,asindicatedbyourrule,suggestsanup-
coming breakout scenario in the currency pair. AUD/CAD did eventually
breakupwardsignificantlyintoastronguptrend.

P1:JYS
c10 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 15:40 Printer:Yettocome
FundamentalTradingStrategies 193
FIGURE 10.20 AUD/CADVolatilityChart
ThesametrendisvisibleintheUSD/JPYvolatilitychartinFigure10.21.
The leftmost arrow shows an instance where one-month implied volatil-
ityspikedsignificantlyhigherthanthree-monthvolatility;asexpected,the
spot price continued to range. The next downward arrow points to an
areawhereshort-termvolatilityfellbelowlong-termvolatility,leadingtoa
breakoutthatsentspotpricesup.
FIGURE 10.21 USD/JPYVolatilityChart

P1:JYS
c10 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 15:40 Printer:Yettocome
194 DAYTRADINGANDSWINGTRADINGTHECURRENCYMARKET
Who Can Benefit from These Rules?
Thisstrategyisnotonlyusefulforbreakouttraders,butrangetraderscan
also utilize this information to predict a potential breakout scenario. If
volatilitycontractsfallsignificantlyorbecomeverylow,thelikelihoodof
continuedrangetradingdecreases.Aftereyeingahistoricalrange,traders
should look at volatilities to estimate the likelihood that the spot will re-
main within this range. Should the trader decide to go long or short this
range,heorsheshouldcontinuetomonitorvolatilityaslongasheorshe
hasanopenpositioninthepairtoassistthemindeterminingwhentoclose
outthatposition.Ifshort-termvolatilitiesfallwellbelowlong-termvolatili-
ties,thetradershouldconsiderclosingthepositionifthesuspectedbreak-
outisnotinthetrader’sfavor.Thepotentialbreakislikelytoworkinthe
favorofthetraderifthecurrentspotisclosetothelimitandfarfromthe
stop.Inthishypotheticalsituation,itmaybeprofitabletomovelimitprices
awayfromcurrentspotpricestoincreaseprofitsfromthepotentialbreak.
Ifthespotpriceisclosetothestoppriceandfarfromthelimitprice,the
break islikely toworkagainst thetrader, and thetrader should close the
positionimmediately.
Breakout traders can monitor volatilities to verify a breakout. If a
tradersuspectsabreakout,heorshecanverifythisbreakoutthroughim-
pliedvolatilities.Shouldimpliedvolatilitybeconstantorrising,thereisa
higherprobabilitythatthecurrencywillcontinuetotradeinrangethanif
volatilityisloworfalling.Inotherwords,breakouttradersshouldlookfor
short-term volatilities to be significantly lower than long-term volatilities
beforemakingabreakouttrade.
Aside from being a key component for pricing, option volatilities can
also be a useful tool for forecasting market activities. Option volatilities
measuretherateandmagnitudeofthechangesinacurrency’sprices.Im-
pliedoptionvolatilities,ontheotherhand,measuretheexpectedfluctua-
tion of a currency’s price over a given period of time based on historical
fluctuations.
Tracking Volatilities on Your Own
Volatility tracking typically involves taking the historic annual stan-
dard deviation of daily price changes. Volatilities can be obtained from
theFXCMnewsplug-inavailableatwww.fxcm.com/forex-news-software-
exchange.jsp.Generallyspeaking,weusethree-monthvolatilitiesforlong-
term volatilities numbers and one-month volatilities for the short term.
Figure10.22showshowthevolatilitieswouldlookonthenewsplug-in.
The next step is to start compiling a list of data for date, currency
pairprice,impliedone-monthvolatility,andimpliedthree-monthvolatility

P1:JYS
c10 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 15:40 Printer:Yettocome
FundamentalTradingStrategies 195
FIGURE 10.22 IFRVolatilityData
for the currency pairs you care about. The best way to generate this list
is through a spreadsheet program such as Microsoft Excel, which makes
graphing trends much easier. It might also be beneficial to find the differ-
encebetweentheone-monthandthree-monthvolatilitiestolookforlarge
differentials or to calculate one-month volatility as a percentage of three-
monthvolatility.
Onceasufficientamountofdataiscompiled,onecangraphthedataas
avisualaid.Thegraphshouldusetwoy-axeswithspotpricesonone,and
short-andlong-termvolatilitiesontheother.Ifdesired,thedifferencesin
short-andlong-termvolatilitiescanbegraphedaswellinaseparate,single
y-axisgraph.
FUNDAMENTAL TRADING
STRATEGY: INTERVENTION
Interventionbycentralbanksisoneofthemostimportantshort-termand
long-termfundamentallybasedmarketmoversinthecurrencymarket.For
short-termtraders,interventioncanleadtosharpintradaymovementson
thescaleof150to250pipsinamatterofminutes.Forlonger-termtraders,
intervention can signal a significant change in trend because it suggests
that the central bank is shifting or solidifying its stance and sending a
message to the market that it is putting its backing behind a certain di-
rectional move in its currency. There are basically two types of interven-
tion, sterilized and unsterilized. Sterilized intervention requires offsetting

P1:JYS
c10 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 15:40 Printer:Yettocome
196 DAYTRADINGANDSWINGTRADINGTHECURRENCYMARKET
interventionwiththebuyingorsellingofgovernmentbonds,whileunster-
ilizedinterventioninvolvesnochangestothemonetarybasetooffsetinter-
vention.Manyarguethatunsterilizedinterventionhasamorelastingeffect
onthecurrencythansterilizedintervention.
Takingalookatsomeofthefollowingcasestudies,itisapparentthat
interventionsingeneralareimportanttowatchandcanhavelargeimpacts
onacurrencypair’spriceaction.Althoughtheactualtimingofintervention
tends tobe a surprise, quiteoften the market will begin talking about the
needforinterventiondaysorweeksbeforetheactualinterventionoccurs.
The direction of intervention is generally always known in advance be-
causethecentralbankwilltypicallycomeacrossthenewswirescomplain-
ingabouttoomuchstrengthorweaknessinitscurrency.Thesewarnings
givetradersawindowofopportunitytoparticipateinwhatcouldbesignif-
icantprofitpotentialsortostayoutofthemarkets.Theonlythingtowatch
out for, which you will see in a case study, is that the sharp intervention-
basedralliesorsell-offscanquicklybereversedasspeculatorscomeinto
themarket to fade thecentral bank. Whether or not the market fades the
central bank depends on the frequency of central bank intervention, the
successrate,themagnitudeoftheintervention,thetimingoftheinterven-
tion, and whether fundamentals support intervention. Overall, though, in-
terventionismuchmoreprevalentinemergingmarketcurrenciesthanin
the G-7 currencies since countries such as Thailand, Malaysia, and South
Koreaneedtoprevent theirlocal currencies fromappreciating toosignif-
icantly such that the appreciation would hinder economic recovery and
reduce the competitiveness of the country’s exports. The rarity of G-7 in-
terventionmakestheinstancesevenmoresignificant.
Japan
The biggest culprit of intervention in the G-7 markets over the past few
yearshasbeentheBankofJapan(BOJ).In2003,theJapanesegovernment
spentarecordY20.1trilliononintervention.Thiscomparestotheprevious
recordofY7.64trillionthatwasspent in1999.InthemonthofDecember
2003 (between November 27 and December 26) alone, the Japanese gov-
ernmentsoldY2.25trillion.Theamountitspentoninterventionthatyear
represented84percentofthecountry’stradesurplus.Asanexport-based
economy,excessstrengthintheJapaneseyenposesasignificantrisktothe
country’s manufacturers. The frequency and strength of BOJ intervention
overthepastfewyearscreatedaninvisiblefloorunderUSD/JPY.Although
thisfloorhasgraduallydescendedfrom115to100between2002and2005,
themarketstillhasaningrainedfearofseeingthehandoftheBOJandthe
JapaneseMinistryofFinanceonceagain.Thisfeariswelljustifiedbecause
intheeventofBOJintervention,theaverage100-pipdailyrangecaneasily

P1:JYS
c10 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 15:40 Printer:Yettocome
FundamentalTradingStrategies 197
triple. Additionally, at the exact time of intervention, USD/JPY has easily
skyrocketed100pipsinamatterofminutes.
In the first case study shown in Figure 10.23, the Japanese govern-
ment came into the market and bought U.S. dollars and sold 1.04 trillion
yen (approximately US$9 billion) on May 19, 2003. The intervention hap-
penedaround7:00a.m.EST.Priortotheintervention,USD/JPYwastrad-
ingaround115.20.Wheninterventionoccurredat7:00a.m.,pricesjumped
30 pips in one minute. By 7:30, USD/JPY was a full 100 pips higher. At
2:30p.m.EST,USD/JPYwas220pipshigher.Interventiongenerallyresults
inanywherebetween100-and200-pipmovements.Tradingonthesideof
intervention can be very profitable (though risky) even if prices end up
reversing.
ThesecondUSD/JPYexample(Figure10.24)showshowatradercould
still be on the side of intervention and profit even though prices reversed
later in the day. On January 9, 2004, the Japanese government came into
themarkettobuydollarsandsell1.664trillionyen(approximatelyUS$15
billion). Prior to the intervention, USD/JPY was trading at approximately
106.60. When the BOJ came into the market at 12:22 a.m. EST, prices
jumped 35 pips. Three minutes later, USD/JPY was 100 pips higher. Five
minuteslater,USD/JPYpeaked150pipsabovethepreinterventionlevel.A
halfhourafterward,USD/JPYwasstill100pipsabovethe12:22a.m.price
of USD/JPY. Although prices eventually traded back down to 106.60, for
thosewatchingthemarkets,goinginthesamedirectionatthetimeofin-
terventionstillwouldhavebeenprofitable.
Thekeyisnottobegreedy,becauseUSD/JPYcouldverywellreverse
ifthemarketbelievesthatfundamentalsreallywarrantastrongeryenand
FIGURE 10.23 USD/JPYMay19,2003

P1:JYS
c10 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 15:40 Printer:Yettocome
198 DAYTRADINGANDSWINGTRADINGTHECURRENCYMARKET
FIGURE 10.24 USD/JPYJanuary9,2004
weakerdollarinthiscaseandthattheJapanesegovernmentissimplyslow-
ing an inevitable decline or fighting a losing battle. Committing to take a
solid 100-pip profit (of a 150- to 200-pip move) or using a very short-term
intradaytrailingstopof15to20pips,forexample,canhelplockinprofits.
The last example of Japanese intervention, shown in Figure 10.25, is
fromNovember19,2003whentheBankofJapansolddollarsandbought
FIGURE 10.25 USD/JPYNovember19,2003

P1:JYS
c10 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 15:40 Printer:Yettocome
FundamentalTradingStrategies 199
948billionyen(approximatelyUS$8billion).Beforeintervention,USD/JPY
wastradingaround107.90andhaddippeddownto107.65.WhentheBOJ
cameintothemarketsat4:45a.m.EST,USD/JPYjumped40pipsinunder
a minute. Ten minutes later, USD/JPY was trading at 100 pips higher at
108.65. Twenty minutes following intervention, USD/JPY was trading 150
pipshigherthanpreinterventionlevels.
Eurozone
Japan is not the only major country to have intervened in its currency in
recentyears.ThecentralbankoftheEurozonealsocameintothemarket
tobuyeurosin2000,whenthesinglecurrencydepreciatedfrom90cents
to84cents.InJanuary1999,whentheeurowasfirstlaunched,itwasval-
ued at 1.17 against the U.S. dollar. Due to the sharp slide, the European
CentralBank(ECB)convincedtheUnitedStates,Japan,theUnitedKing-
dom,andCanadatojoinitincoordinatedinterventiontopropuptheeuro
for the first time ever. The Eurozone felt concerned that the market was
lackingconfidenceinitsnewcurrencybutalsofearedthattheslideinthe
currency was increasing the cost of the region’s oil imports. With energy
priceshitting10-yearhighsatthetime,Europe’sheavydependenceonoil
imports necessitated a stronger currency. The United States agreed to in-
tervention because buying euros and selling dollars would help to boost
the value of European imports and aid in the funding of an already grow-
ing U.S. trade deficit. Tokyo joined in the intervention because it was be-
coming concerned that the weaker euro was posing a threat to Japan’s
own exports. Although the ECB did not release details on the magnitude
ofitsintervention,theFederalReservereportedhavingpurchased1.5bil-
lioneurosagainstthedollaronbehalfoftheECB.Eventhoughtheactual
interventionitselfcaughtthemarketbysurprise,theECBgavegoodwarn-
ing to the market with numerous bouts of verbal support from the ECB
andEuropeanUnionofficials.Fortradingpurposes,thiswouldhavegiven
traders an opportunity to buy euros in anticipation of intervention or to
avoidshortingtheEUR/USD.
Figure10.26showsthepriceactionoftheEUR/USDonthedayofin-
tervention. Unfortunately, there is no minute data available dating back
to September 2000, but from the daily chart we can see that on the day
that the ECB intervened in the euro (September 22, 2000) with the help
of its trade partners, the EUR/USD had a high-low range of more than
400pips.
Even though intervention does not happen often, it is a very impor-
tantfundamentaltradingstrategybecauseeachtimeitoccurs,pricemove-
mentsaresubstantial.

P1:JYS
c10 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 15:40 Printer:Yettocome
200 DAYTRADINGANDSWINGTRADINGTHECURRENCYMARKET
FIGURE 10.26 EUR/USDSeptember2000
Fortraders,interventionhasthreemajorimplicationsfortrading:
1. Playintervention.Useconcertedwarningsfromcentralbankofficials
asasignalforpossibleintervention—theinvisiblefloorcreatedbythe
Japanese government has given USD/JPY bulls plenty of opportunity
topickshort-termbottoms.
2. Avoidtradesthatwouldfadeintervention.Therewillalwaysbecon-
trarians among us, but fading intervention, though sometimes prof-
itable, entails a significant amount of risk. One bout of intervention
byacentralbankcouldeasilytriggerasharp100-to150-pipmove(or
more)inthecurrencypair,takingoutstopordersandexacerbatingthe
move.
3. Usestopswheninterventionisarisk.Withthe24-hournatureofthe
market,interventioncanoccuratanytimeoftheday.Althoughstops
shouldalwaysbeenteredintothetradingplatformimmediatelyafter
theentryorderistriggered,havingstopsinplaceisevenmoreimpor-
tantwheninterventionisamajorrisk.
USING EQUITIES TO TRADE FX
There has been a growing correlation between the equity market and the
currency market over the past few years. Part of this correlation stems
fromtheexcessesoftheGreenspanera,whentradersandinvestorsbought
everythinginsight.Asaresult,equitiesandcarrytradesbecameameasure

P1:JYS
c10 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 15:40 Printer:Yettocome
FundamentalTradingStrategies 201
ofrisk,withbothrallyinginenvironmentsofstrongriskappetiteandfalling
inenvironmentsofriskaversion.However,usingequitiestotradecurren-
ciesismorecomplexthansimplysellingtheUSD/JPYasstocksarefalling
orbuyingtheUSD/JPYiftheyarerising.
Likethestoryofthechickenandtheegg,itisdifficulttofigurewhich
market is actually leading the other. Just as often as I have seen a move-
ment in equities trigger a move in currencies, the reverse has happened
aswell.
Therearethreeprimarycorrelationsthatcreatethefoundationforour
tradingstrategies.
Correlation between the Nikkei and the Dow
Figure10.27illustratesthestrongcorrelationbetweentheJapanesestock
index(theNikkei225)andtheDowJonesIndustrialAverage.Since2000,
the price patterns of these two indexes have mirrored each other, and a
closerlookatthechartshowsthatthemovesintheNikkeicansometimes
befarmoreexaggerated thanthemovesintheDow(pleasebearinmind
thatthesetwoindexeshavenotbeennormalizedinthechart).Moreimpor-
tant,itshouldbecleartherearetimeswhentheNikkeirisesorfallsbefore
theDowandtimeswhentheDowleadsamoveintheNikkei.Correlations
Japanese Nlkkel 225 Index vs. Dow Jones Industrial Average 2000–2008
xednI
522
iekkiN
esenapaJ
egarevA
lairtsudnI
senoJ
woD
Dow Jones Industrial Average (rhs)
2000
00002
00081
00061
00041
00021
00001
0008
00041
00031
00021
00011
00001
0009
0008
Japanese Nikkei 225 Index (lhs)
2002 2004 2006 2008
FIGURE 10.27 TheNikkei225andtheDowJonesIndustrialAverage

P1:JYS
c10 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 15:40 Printer:Yettocome
202 DAYTRADINGANDSWINGTRADINGTHECURRENCYMARKET
between global stock market indexes are nothing new and not unique to
justtheUnitedStatesandJapan.
Correlation between the Nikkei and the USD/JPY
Figure 10.28 illustrates the correlation between the Nikkei and USD/JPY.
Although it is not as strong as the correlation in Figure 10.27, it is still
significant. The axis for the Nikkei in this chart has been flipped, which
meansthatUSD/JPYfallswhentheNikkeiralliesandviceversa.Whenthe
Japanese stock market isdoing well, itreflects on the health of the econ-
omy and the market’s optimism, which is why it tends to be positive for
theyenaswell.WhentheJapanesestockmarketstartstotank,however,
domestic and foreign investors alike become nervous and pile out of not
onlyJapaneseequitiesbutalsotheJapaneseyen.
Correlation between the USD/JPY and the Dow
ThisleadsustothecorrelationbetweentheUSD/JPYandtheDow.Since
the Nikkei and the Dow are correlated like the Nikkei and USD/JPY, one
would automatically assume that the Dow and USD/JPY are correlated
as well. Although this is true, the correlation is weaker than the two
Japanese Nlkkel 225 Index vs. USD/JPY 2000–2008
xednI
522
iekkiN
esenapaJ
YPJ/DSU
USD/JPY (rhs)
2000
00002
00081
00061
00041
00021
00001
0008
031
021
011
001
Japanese Nikkei 225 Index (lhs)
2002 2004 2006 2008
FIGURE 10.28 TheNikkei225andtheUSD/JPY

P1:JYS
c10 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 15:40 Printer:Yettocome
FundamentalTradingStrategies 203
correlations that we have already seen, which illustrates why it is partic-
ularlyimportanttonotbaseyourtradeideasprimarilyonthecorrelations.
It is nice to see that on a day-to-day basis, the asset classes may move in
lockstep,butthatshouldbeonlyacomponentofyourtradingdecisionand
nottheprimarybasisforthestrategy.
Withthisinmind,therearetwodifferentwaysthatIliketouseequities
totradecurrencies,andbothincorporateeitherfundamentalortechnical
analysis.
TRADING THE CORRELATION WITH
FUNDAMENTALS
My favorite strategy is to use the correlation with fundamentals. Here
is an example of an actual trade that I recommended to subscribers of
BKTraderFX(seeFigure10.29).
On May 7, 2008, we recommended going short the New Zealand dol-
laragainsttheU.S.dollarfortworeasons.ThefirstwasthattheDowhad
plummetedover200pointsandwebelievedthatcarrytradesellingwould
FIGURE 10.29 SampleTrade,BKForexAdvisor
(Source:BKTraderFX.com)

P1:JYS
c10 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 15:40 Printer:Yettocome
204 DAYTRADINGANDSWINGTRADINGTHECURRENCYMARKET
continueintotheAsiantradingsession.Withaninterestratespreadof625
basispointsatthetime(NewZealand’sratewas8.25percentandtheU.S.
ratewas2.00percent),theNZD/USDwasoneofthefewcarrytradesleftin
themarket.However,thatwasnottheonlyreasonwetookthetrade.The
primaryreasonwastheupcomingNewZealandemploymentreport,which
weexpectedtobeweak.Themarketwaslookingforemploymenttodrop
by only 0.1 percent in the first quarter, but given the big drop in the Man-
powerIndexandtheemploymentcomponentofthePurchasingManagers
Index, we were looking for an even bigger decline. The combination of a
bearishcarrytradeenvironmentandthepossibilityofweakNewZealand
datagaveustheconfidencetoshorttheNewZealanddollarat0.7812.As
indicatedbytheprogressionofourtrade,wemanagedtobank107pips.
Figure10.30showshowtheNZD/USDwastrading.Tradingwasheavy
alldayduetotheweaknessintheDowandthenbrokedownfollowingthe
NewZealandemploymentnumbers.
TRADING THE CORRELATION WITH
TECHNICALS
Another way to trade the correlation between equities and currencies is
withtechnicals.Hereisasimpleexample.OnMay1,2008,theDowJones
FIGURE 10.30 NZD/USDHourlyChart
(Source:www.eSignal.com)

P1:JYS
c10 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 15:40 Printer:Yettocome
FundamentalTradingStrategies 205
FIGURE 10.31 USD/JPYHourlyChart
(Source:www.eSignal.com)
IndustrialAverageopenedstronglyandralliedover100pointsinamatter
ofthreehours.USD/JPY,interestinglyenough,didnotfollowhigher.One
ofthereasonsforthislackoffollow-throughmayhavebeenthestrongre-
sistance provided by the 100-day simple moving average, as indicated by
Figure 10.31. Given the strength of the equity market, a possible strategy
wouldhavebeentobuyonthebreakofthemovingaverageintheexpec-
tation that stocks would take USD/JPY higher in the U.S. session and the
movewouldcontinueintotheAsiantradingsession.Theentrypointwould
have to be above the attempted break four hours before at 104.21. As in-
dicated in Figure 10.27, such a strong move in the Dow should lead to a
similarrallyintheNikkeiwhenthemarketsopenedfortrading.TheDow
proceeded to rise another 100 points by the time the market closed, and
eventhoughUSD/JPYdidnotracehigherimmediately,itdidquietlygrind
higher throughout the Asian and European trading sessions. The key to
usingtechnicalswithequitiesistohaveflowonyourside.

P1:JYS
c10 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 15:40 Printer:Yettocome
206

P1:JYS
c11 JWBK299-Lein August7,2008 12:31 Printer:Yettocome
C H A P T E R 11
How to Trade
Like a Hedge
Fund Manager
T
hischapteronhowtotradelikeahedgefundmanagerisreallyabout
thestepstodevelopingasuccessfultradingstrategy.Havingworked
with many money managers and being involved in the process of
launchingmanagedfundproducts,Ihaverealizedthatallmoneymanagers
workinasimilarway.Theirstrategiesmaybedifferent,butthewaythey
come about developing these strategiesisnot. The reason therearecom-
monthreadsisbecauseprofessionalfundmanagersneedtohaveaccount-
ability. In other words, they need to understand their own methodology
insideandout.
Thedifferencebetweenaprofessionalandanunprofessionaltraderis
that a professional never goes into a trade blindly. This is important be-
causeinorderforprofessionalmoneymanagerstobeconfidentenoughto
solicitinvestmentsintotheirfunds,notonlydotheyneedtohaveabattle-
testedstrategy,buttheyalsoneedtoknowwhenthefundsucceeds,when
itfails,andhowbadthingscanget.
As retail or individual traders, our $20,000 accounts are just as im-
portant as any $20 million hedge fund. In fact, our accounts may be even
moreimportant,becausewearetradingwithourownmoneywhereasthe
$20millionhedgefundmanagerismostlikelytradingwithotherpeople’s
money. Therefore, if all hedge fund managers follow a five-step process
in developing their trading strategies, there is no reason why individual
tradersshouldnottodosoaswell.
Thebestwaytodevelopatradingstrategyistofollowafive-steptop-
downapproach:
207

P1:JYS
c11 JWBK299-Lein August7,2008 12:31 Printer:Yettocome
208 DAYTRADINGANDSWINGTRADINGTHECURRENCYMARKET
1. Properlydefiningthetradingstrategy.
2. Theartofenteringandexiting.
3. Testdrive.
4. Gettingintimate.
5. Self-reflection.
PROPERLY DEFINING THE
TRADING STRATEGY
Every hedge fund manager, like every trader, follows a different method-
ology.Somewillonlyusefundamentalanalysis,whileotherswillonlyuse
technicalanalysis.Thefirstthingtodoistofigureoutwhattypeoftrader
youareandwhattypeofstyleyouwanttotradein.Thischapterwillnot
tellyouwhichstyleoftrading(fundamentalversustechnicalorshort-term
versuslong-term)willbethemostprofitable,becausethereisn’tonestyle
thatisbest.InMillionaireTraders:HowEverydayPeopleBeatWallStreet
atItsOwnGame(JohnWiley&Sons,2007),weinterviewed12successful
traders from all walks of life and learned that there isn’t just one way to
trading success. Every trader is different; some would hold positions for
weeksandmonths,whileotherswouldholdthemformereseconds.
Therearefourkeythingsthatyouneedtothinkaboutwhendefininga
strategy,andtheseneedtobedonebeforeyoustarttrading.Tradewitha
plananddonotdevelopthatplanonthefly.
Fundamental or Technical?
The first step to defining a trading strategy is to figure out whether you
want to trade based on fundamentals or technicals, or a combination of
both.Whenfundmanagersdevelopsystematictradingstrategies,clear-cut
rulesaredevelopedsothattheycanbecoded.Althoughnoteveryonewill
becodingtheirtradingstrategies,thereisalessontobelearnedfromthat
process,asoneoftheprimaryreasonstradersfailisbecausetheygettoo
emotional.Comingupwithyourownrulesisextremelyimportant,because
followingrulestakestheemotionoutoftrading.Figuringoutwhetheryou
wanttobaseyourtradesonnewsoratechnicalindicatorisonlytheinitial
steptodefiningyourtradingstrategy.
What Currencies Will You Trade?
The second step is to determine which currency pairs you want to trade,
because not all currencies are created equal. In FX, there are generally

P1:JYS
c11 JWBK299-Lein August7,2008 12:31 Printer:Yettocome
HowtoTradeLikeaHedgeFundManager 209
two types of trading strategies—trend following or range trading. Most
hedge funds are trend following because of the one-way directional bias
of the currency market, but many people are contrarians by nature and
maychoosetorangetradeinstead.Thereisnowrongorrightchoice,but
inordertoincreasetheprobabilityofsuccess,manyhedgefundmanagers
willnarrowthecurrencypairsthatthesystemwilltrade.RarelyhaveIseen
professionaltradersapplythesamestrategytoeverysinglecurrencypair.
Theywillalmostalwayshavecurrencypairsthattheytradeoftenandcur-
rencypairsthattheynevertrade.Forexample,ifyourtradingstrategycalls
forariskofnomorethan100pipsoneachtrade,currencypairswithwide
rangesliketheGBP/JPYandtheEUR/CADshouldbeavoidedandprobably
nottraded,becauseevenifthecurrencypaireventuallymovesinyourde-
sireddirection,itswideswingsmaystopyououtbeforedoingso.Another
example would be to apply range-trading strategies only to range-trading
currency pairs and apply trending strategies to trending currency pairs.
TheCHF/JPY,forexample,isagreatcurrencypairforarange-tradingstrat-
egyandahorribleoneforatrend-tradingstrategy,becauseexceptforone
spikelower,ithasbeentrappedina300-piprangefromSeptember2007to
March2008.Therefore,apersonwitharange-tradingstrategyshouldlook
totradeonlycurrency pairsliketheCHF/JPY, whiletrendtradersshould
avoidtheCHF/JPYatallcosts.
Whenitcomestocurrencies,anotherthingtoconsiderismajorsver-
sus crosses. Major currency pairs such as the EUR/USD or the USD/JPY
tend to be very sensitive to what is happening in the U.S. dollar, whereas
thisisgenerallynotthecaseforthecrosses,becausetheydonotinclude
theU.S.dollar.Newstradersmayfindthistipparticularlyuseful,because
unlessyouaretradingU.S.data,crossescouldactuallybebetterbetsbe-
causetheirpriceactionmaybelessdistortedbythemarket’sappetitefor
U.S.dollars.
What Time Frame Will You Trade?
The thirdstep todefining your tradingstrategy istodetermine what time
frameyouwanttotrade.Astrategythatworksonadailychartwillprob-
ably have far less accuracy on a 5-minute chart. For example, if you are
using the inside day strategy, you will see that inside days are far more
common on intraday charts and far less common on daily charts. This is
whytheyareextremelyaccuratewhentheydoappearondailycharts;the
rarestthingscanbethemostvaluable.
Finally, when it comes to time frames, other things that need to be
consideredincludewhetheryouwillholdpositionsovernightandoverthe
weekend. For example, short-term traders may find it more profitable to
close their trades if they are not working after a certain number of hours

P1:JYS
c11 JWBK299-Lein August7,2008 12:31 Printer:Yettocome
210 DAYTRADINGANDSWINGTRADINGTHECURRENCYMARKET
orwhenthemarketswitchesintotheAsiantradingsession.Thiswouldap-
plyfortradersreactingtonews,becauseifthetradedoesnotmoveinyour
favor after a few hours, the momentum from the news release has prob-
ably waned. As for the weekend, occasionally something big may happen
between Friday night and Sunday afternoon. Unless you have stops that
canabsorbanyshocksoryouknowthatthereisn’tasignificanteventrisk,
closingpositionsbeforetheweekendmayalsobesomethingtoconsider.
THE ART OF ENTERING AND EXITING
InaninterviewforMillionaire Traders: How Everyday People Beat Wall
Street at Its Own Game, Rob Booker made a fantastic analogy. We were
talkingaboutwhethertheentryofatradeortheexitismoreimportant,and
Rob likened thistoflying and asking a pilotwhich ismore important, the
takeofforthelanding.Withoutevenneedingtoaskapilot,aspassengers,
wewillallagreethatthesamedegreeofprecisionneedstobeappliedto
boththetakeoffandthelanding.Thisistruefortradingaswell.
The majority of traders spend their time trying to figure out the best
entry strategies by looking for the perfect combination of indicators for
buyandsellsignals,whiletheirexitstrategiesareusuallyrelegatedtobe-
ingnothingmorethananafterthought.Yetthisafterthoughtofteniswhat
differentiates consistently profitable traders from ones who are perpetu-
ally looking for a better trading strategy. Too often have I heard traders
complainabouthowtheyletawinningtradebecomealosingone.
Whenhedgefundmanagersdesigntradingstrategies,theygiveagreat
dealofthoughttobothentriesandexits.Thereareprimarilyfourdifferent
waystoenterorexitatrade:
1. Singleentry,singleexit:Withasingleentryandasingleexit,traders
basically put on their entire position at one price and exit the entire
positionatoneprice.
2. Single entry, multiple exits:Withasingleentryandmultipleexits,
tradersentertheirentirepositionatonepricebutscaleoutofthepo-
sitionatdifferentprices.Thistacticisusuallyusedtorideabreakout
or trend for as long as possible while banking some profits along the
way.
3. Multipleentries,singleexit:Withmultipleentriesandasingleexit,
tradersscaleintoapositionatdifferentpricesbutendupclosingthe
entire position at one price. This tactic is used by traders who are
averaging down and averaging up. To average down means to add to
a position as it moves against you with the hope of attaining a better

P1:JYS
c11 JWBK299-Lein August7,2008 12:31 Printer:Yettocome
HowtoTradeLikeaHedgeFundManager 211
averageprice.Toaverageupmeanstoaddtoapositionasitmovesin
yourfavor.
4. Multipleentries,multipleexits:Withmultipleentriesandmultiple
exits,tradersscalebothintoandoutoftheirpositions.Thisisatactic
frequently used by trend traders. They average up into a position by
addingtowinningtradesandscaleoutofthepositiontocapitalizeon
asmuchofthetrendaspossible.
Withautomaticsystems,entryandexitstrategiesaresetinstoneand
codedintothesystem.Tradersshouldtrytoapproachentriesandexitsin
the same way by deciding which of the four combinations to use before
laying on a trade. For those traders who like to average up or down, an
importantquestiontoaskishowloworhowhighyouarewillingtobuy.If
youkeeponaddingtoalosingtrade,atsomepointitjustbecomessmarter
tobitethebullet,taketheloss,andadmitthatthemoveyouwereinitially
lookingforwillnothappenorthetrendhaschanged.Agoodruleofthumb
istoaveragedownnomorethanthreetimes.Whenitcomestostops,there
shouldbenoartinvolved—haveasetruleonplacingstopsandsticktoit.
TEST DRIVE
Youwillneverbuyacarwithouttest-drivingit,soyoushouldnevertrade
a strategy without back-testing it! For hedge funds and developers of au-
tomated trading systems, back-testing is extremely important because if
a trading strategy did not make money in the past, how can they believe
thatthestrategywillmakemoneyinthefuture?ManyFXtraderswilllearn
strategiesfromtheirfriends,tradingcoaches,oreventhisbook,butnoone
should ever just follow a strategy blindly. Make sure it is back-tested and
forward-tested.
Fortraderswhoareparticularlygoodatprogramming,codeyourstrat-
egy using something like TradeStation, eSignal, or Meta Trader, run the
results,andmakesurethatitisprofitable.
Traders who do not know how to code should do the visual back
test. Open your charts, apply your indicators, and look for a minimum of
20 examples of the strategy working. Then downgrade the time frame of
your charts to make sure that the strategy could have been executed at
your desired price. For example, if you are trading a strategy based on
hourlycharts,makesuretherearenospikesonthe5-minutecharts.
Onceyouhavefoundyourback-testedexamples,itistimetoforward-
test.Oneofthegreatthingsabouttradingcurrenciesisthewideavailability
ofdemoandminiaccounts.Itisimportanttolivetestwithasmallamount

P1:JYS
c11 JWBK299-Lein August7,2008 12:31 Printer:Yettocome
212 DAYTRADINGANDSWINGTRADINGTHECURRENCYMARKET
of money, because once there is actual money involved, a whole differ-
entsetofemotionswillarise,andcontrollingthoseemotionsisanimpor-
tantpartofdevelopingthedisciplineyouneedtotradelargeramountsof
money.Thebestthingtodoistofocusonthechangesinpipsandnotthe
changesindollars.
GETTING INTIMATE
The fourth step to thinking like a hedge fund manager is to get intimate
withyourtradingstrategy,becausenotalltradingstrategiesarealike.
Understanding Performance
When it comes to performance, there are two primary types of trading
strategies—onethathasahighpercentageofprofitabletradesandonethat
hasahighprofitfactor.
In strategies that have a high percentage of profitable trades, usually
the amount of pips made in winning trades is approximately the same as
the amount of pips lost in losing trades. An example would be a strategy
where8out10tradesarewinners,witheachwinningtrademaking20pips
and each unprofitable trade losing 20 pips. Although this does not satisfy
the textbook description of a good risk-to-reward ratio, if the number of
profitabletradesisfarhigherthanthenumberoflosingtrades,thestrategy
isstillasolidone.Inthepreviousexample,thenetprofitforthe10trades
wouldstillbe120pips.Therefore,ifyouhaveastrategysimilartothisand
itstartstohavesixorsevenconsecutivelosers,youknowthatitistimeto
seriouslyreexaminethestrategy.
For strategies that have a high profit factor but a low percentage of
profitable trades, having a string of losers may be a part of the trading
strategy.Thisappliesparticularlytobreakouttraderswhomaytakesmall
positionswithtightstopsinanticipationofabigbreakout.Althoughthey
maygetstoppedoutoftenfor30or40pips,whenthebreakoutoccurs,the
eventualmovecouldbetothedegreeof400or500pips.
Thekeyhereistoknowexactlywhattypeofmarketenvironmentyour
strategyperformswellinandwhattypeofmarketenvironmentyourstrat-
egyfailsin,becauseonlythenwillyouknowwhenitistimetopulltheplug.
Understanding Drawdown
Inthecurrencymarket,managinglossesisextremelyimportant.Manypeo-
plewhoarenewtothecurrencymarketarguethattradingFXisfarmore
dangerousthantradinganyotherasset.Insomewaystheyarewrongand

P1:JYS
c11 JWBK299-Lein August7,2008 12:31 Printer:Yettocome
HowtoTradeLikeaHedgeFundManager 213
insomewaystheyareright.Withonlyeightmajorcurrenciestotrade,the
FX market is much easier to understand than other markets. Also, since
most people trade only the G-10 currencies, economic data cannot really
be manipulated and there will almost never be a scenario like WorldCom
orEnron.Onaday-to-daybasis,currencyratesusuallymovenomorethan
1 to2 percent, which actually makes them one of the least volatile assets
to invest or trade in. However, the availability of very high leverage does
maketradingcurrenciesmoredangerous.Somebrokersofferasmuchas
400-to-1leverage,whichmakesa1percentmovemorelike400percent.It
therefore becomes much easier to blow up your trading account. Thank-
fully, leverage is customizable, and it is important for traders to actively
managetheirrisk.
Understanding the drawdown of your trading strategy helps to man-
age risk by giving you a frame of reference for determining when to pull
the plug and when to sit tight. A drawdown is defined as the reduction
inaccountequityfromatradeorseriesoftrades.Allprofessional money
managers know the maximum drawdowns of their trading strategies. For
example,Ioncetestedastrategyinvolvingcarrytrades,andthemaximum
drawdownforthestrategyoverthepast10yearswas15percent.Withthat
number in mind, I knew that if the drawdown going forward hits 10 per-
cent, it does not necessarily mean that the strategy has failed. However,
ifthedrawdownhits15percentIshouldstartgettingveryworried;andif
it hits 20 percent, then I know that this may be a completely new trading
environmentnotpreviouslyaccountedforinthebacktest,andforthatrea-
son,itmaybetimetoseriouslyconsiderpullingtheplug,admittingthatI
amwrong,andterminatingthestrategy.
When it comes to drawdowns, there are three main things that all
tradersneedtoknowabouttheirstrategies.Thefirstistheaveragedraw-
downonagiventrade;thisisimportantbecauseitletsyouknowwhether
thetradeisbehavinginaccordance withyourstrategy.Thesecondisthe
degree of the biggest drawdown; this lets you know how bad it can get.
Finally, you need to know whether the drawdown is on a closing or an
intratrade basis. Oftentimes the drawdown or maximum loss on a closed
trade may be different from the drawdown or floating loss on an open
trade.
SELF-REFLECTION
The last step of thinking or trading like a hedge fund manager is self-
reflection. A few years ago, after I conducted an FX trading workshop in
Malaysia,atradercametomeforadvice.Hetoldmethathehadatrading
strategythatworkedwellinnearlyallmarketenvironmentsexceptwhen

P1:JYS
c11 JWBK299-Lein August7,2008 12:31 Printer:Yettocome
214 DAYTRADINGANDSWINGTRADINGTHECURRENCYMARKET
newswasbeingreleased.Interestinglyenough,heaskedmewhatIthought
heshoulddo,andIsimplysaid,“Don’ttradewhennewsisbeingreleased!”
Oftentimeswebecomesoabsorbedwithtradingthatwedonotnotice
the obvious. This why it is important to spend some time on a weekly or
monthly basis to go over or reflect on your trading. At the end of every
week,BorisSchlossberg,withwhomIrunBKTraderFX,andIwillsitdown
and go over each and every one of our trades. We will ask ourselves why
a particular trade worked, why it did not work, and what we could have
donebetter.Wewillreviewboththewinningandlosingtradestolookto
findroomforimprovement.Infact,witheverytradethatwetake,wewill
ask ourselves if this is in line with our trading strategy, and if not, will
weendupregrettingmakingthesamemistakesatourend-of-weekreview
sessions.
For the trader in Malaysia, the small improvement that he needed to
makemayhavesimplyinvolvedavoidingnewsreleases,whichcanbeap-
plicableforrangetradersingeneral.Otherpeoplemayrealizethattheyare
takingprofitstooearlyorfindthattheirperformanceimprovesbylimiting
theirtradingtocertaintimesoftheday.Smallandsimplechangessuchas
thesecanmakealong-termdifferenceforalltraders.

P1:JYS
c12 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 17:48 Printer:Yettocome
C H A P T E R 12
Profiles and
Unique
Characteristics
of Major
Currency Pairs
I
t is important for all traders to have a good grasp of the general eco-
nomiccharacteristicsofeachofthemostcommonlytradedcurrencies
inordertogaugewhateconomicdataandfactorsingeneralmayhave
the most significant impact on a currency’s movements. Some currencies
tendtotrackcommodityprices,whileothersmaymoveincompletecon-
trast. Traders also need to be aware of the difference between expected
andactualdata.Thatis,themostimportantaspectofinterpretingnewsand
itsimpactontheforeignexchangemarketsisthedeterminationofwhether
the market is expecting a piece of news. This is known as the “market
discountmechanism.”Thecorrelationbetweenthecurrencymarketsand
newsisveryimportant.Newsordatathatareinlinewithexpectationshave
less ofan impact on currency movements than unexpected news ordata.
Therefore,short-termtradersneedtocloselymonitorexpectationsofthe
market.
CURRENCY PROFILE: U.S.
DOLLAR (USD)
Broad Economic Overview
The United States is the world’s leading economic power, with gross do-
mestic product (GDP) valued at over US$13 trillion in 2006. This is the
highestintheworld,and,basedonthepurchasingpowerparitymodel,it
isthreetimesthesizeofJapan’s output,fivetimesthesizeofGermany’s,
215

P1:JYS
c12 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 17:48 Printer:Yettocome
216 DAYTRADINGANDSWINGTRADINGTHECURRENCYMARKET
and seven times the size of the United Kingdom’s. The United States is
primarily a service-oriented country with nearly 80 percent of its GDP
comingfromrealestate,transportation,finance,healthcare,andbusiness
services. Yet the sheer size of the U.S. manufacturing sector still makes
the U.S. dollar particularly sensitive to developments within the sector.
With the United States having the most liquid equity and fixed income
markets in the world, foreign investors have consistently increased their
purchases of U.S. assets. According to the International Monetary Fund
(IMF), foreign direct investments into the United States are equal to ap-
proximately 40 percent of total global net inflows for the United States.
On a net basis, the United States absorbs 71 percent of total foreign sav-
ings. This means that if foreign investors are not satisfied with their re-
turns in the U.S. asset markets and they decide to repatriate their funds,
this would have a significant effect on U.S. asset values and the U.S. dol-
lar.Morespecifically,ifforeigninvestorsselltheirU.S.dollar-denominated
assetholdingsinsearchofhigher-yieldingassetselsewhere,thiswouldtyp-
ically result in a decline in the value of the U.S. asset, as well as the U.S.
dollar.
The import and export volume of the United States also exceeds that
ofanyothercountry.Thisisduetothecountry’ssheersize,astrueimport
andexportvolumerepresentamere12percentofGDP.Despitethislarge
activity,onanettedbasis,theUnitedStatesisrunningaverylargecurrent
account deficit of over $800 billion as of 2006. This is a major problem
that the U.S. economy has been grappling with for more than 10 years.
However,inthepastfiveyears,ithasbecomeanevenlargerproblemsince
foreignfundingofthedeficithasbeenlanguishingasforeigncentralbanks
considerdiversifyingreserveassetsoutofdollarsandintoeuros.Thelarge
currentaccountdeficitmakestheU.S.dollarhighlysensitivetochangesin
capitalflows.Infact,inordertopreventafurtherdeclineintheU.S.dollar
asaresultoftrade,theUnitedStatesneedstoattractasignificantamount
ofcapitalinflowsperday(in2006,thisnumberwasover$2billionperday).
The United States is also the largest trading partner for most other
countries,representing20percentoftotalworldtrade.Theserankingsare
veryimportantbecausechangesinthevalueofthedollaranditsvolatility
will impact U.S. trading activities with these respective countries. More
specifically,aweakerdollarcouldboostU.S.exportstoitstradepartners,
whereasastrongerdollarcouldcurbforeigndemandforU.S.exports.Here
arethebreakdownsofthemostimportanttradingpartnersfortheUnited
States(inorderofimportance).
Thelistofexportmarketsisimportantbecauseitrankstheimportance
ofgrowthandpoliticalstabilityofthesecountriesfortheUnitedStates.For
example,shouldCanadiangrowthslow,itsdemandforU.S.exportswould
alsofall,whichwouldhavearippleeffectonU.S.growth.

P1:JYS
c12 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 17:48 Printer:Yettocome
ProfilesandUniqueCharacteristicsofMajorCurrencyPairs 217
LeadingExportMarkets
1. Canada
2. Mexico
3. Japan
4. UnitedKingdom
5. EuropeanUnion
LeadingImportSources
1. Canada
2. China
3. Mexico
4. Japan
5. EuropeanUnion
Source: Bureau of Economic Analysis, “U.S. International Transactions,”
2006Report.
Monetary and Fiscal Policy Makers—The Federal
Reserve
The Federal Reserve Board (Fed) is the monetary policy authority of the
UnitedStates.TheFedisresponsibleforsettingandimplementingmone-
tarypolicythroughtheFederalOpenMarketCommittee(FOMC).Thevot-
ingmembersoftheFOMCarethesevengovernorsoftheFederalReserve
Board, plus five presidents of the 12 district reserve banks. The FOMC
holds eight meetings per year, which arewidelywatched forinterest rate
announcementsorchangesingrowthexpectations.
TheFedhasahighdegreeofindependencetosetmonetaryauthority.
Itislesssubjecttopoliticalinfluences,asmostmembersareaccordedlong
termsthatallowthemtoremaininofficethroughperiodsofalternateparty
dominanceinboththepresidencyandCongress.
The Federal Reserve issues a biannual Monetary Policy Report in
February and July followed by the Humphrey-Hawkins testimony where
the Federal Reserve chairman responds to questions from both the
CongressandtheBankingCommitteesinregardtothisreport.Thisreport
isimportanttowatch,asitcontainstheFOMCforecastsforGDPgrowth,
inflation,andunemployment.
TheFed,unlikemostothercentralbanks,hasamandateor“long-run
objectives” of“pricestabilityandsustainable economic growth.”Inorder
toadheretothesegoals,theFedhastousemonetarypolicytolimitinfla-

P1:JYS
c12 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 17:48 Printer:Yettocome
218 DAYTRADINGANDSWINGTRADINGTHECURRENCYMARKET
tionandunemploymentandtoachievebalancedgrowth.Themostpopular
toolsthattheFedusestocontrolmonetarypolicyareopenmarketopera-
tionsandthefederalfundsrate.
Open Market Operations Open market operations involve Fed pur-
chases of government securities, including Treasury bills, notes, and
bonds.ThisisoneofthemostpopularmethodsfortheFedtosignalandim-
plementpolicychanges.Generallyspeaking,anincreaseinFedpurchases
ofgovernmentsecuritiesdecreasesinterestrates,whilesellingofgovern-
mentsecuritiesbytheFedboostsinterestrates.
Federal Funds Target The federal funds target rate is the key pol-
icytargetoftheFederalReserve.Itistheinterestrateforborrowingthat
theFedofferstoitsmemberbanks.TheFedtendstoincreasethisrateto
curb inflation or decrease this rate to promote growth and consumption.
Changestothisratearecloselywatchedbythemarket,tendtoimplyma-
jorchangesinpolicy,andtypicallyhavelargeramificationsforglobalfixed
income and equity markets. The market also pays particular attention to
the statement released by the Federal Reserve, as it can offer signals for
futuremonetarypolicyactions.
Intermsoffiscalpolicy,thatisinthehandsoftheU.S.Treasury.Fis-
calpolicydecisionsincludedeterminingtheappropriateleveloftaxesand
governmentspending.Infact,althoughthemarketspaymoreattentionto
theFederalReserve,theU.S.Treasuryistheactualgovernmentbodythat
determinesdollarpolicy.Thatis,iftheTreasuryfeelsthattheUSDrateon
theforeignexchangemarketisunder-orovervalued,theU.S.Treasuryis
thegovernmentbodythatgivestheNewYorkFederalReserveBoardthe
authorityandinstructionstointerveneintheforeignexchangemarketby
physicallysellingorbuyingU.S.dollars.Therefore,theTreasury’sviewon
dollar policy and changes to that view is generally very important to the
currencymarket.
Over the past few decades, the Treasury and Fed officials have main-
taineda“strongdollar”bias.ThiswasparticularlytrueunderformerTrea-
sury Secretary Paul O’Neill, who was frequently very vocal in advocating
astrongdollar.UndertheBushadministration,TreasurySecretaryHenry
Paulsonhasreiteratedthisviewandstatedthathe,too,favorsastrongdol-
lar. However, the Bush administration has done little to stem the dollar’s
slidebetween2003and2008,whichhasledthemarkettobelievethatthe
administrationactuallyfavorsabehind-the-scenesweakdollarpolicyand
uses it as a tool to spur growth. Yet, for political reasons, it is not likely
thatthegovernmentwouldvocallychangeitsstancetosupportingaweak
dollarpolicy.

P1:JYS
c12 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 17:48 Printer:Yettocome
ProfilesandUniqueCharacteristicsofMajorCurrencyPairs 219
Important Characteristics of the U.S. Dollar
(cid:1)
Over90percentofallcurrencydealsinvolvethedollar.
Themostliquidcurrenciesintheforeignexchangemarketarethe
EUR/USD, USD/JPY, GBP/USD, and USD/CHF. These currencies rep-
resent the most frequently traded currencies in the world, and all of
these currency pairs involve the U.S. dollar. In fact, 90 percent of all
currencydealsinvolvetheU.S.dollar.Thisexplainstheimportanceof
the U.S. dollar to all foreign exchange traders. As a result, the most
importanteconomicdatathatusuallymovethemarketaredollarfun-
damentals.
(cid:1)
Prior to September 11, the U.S. dollar was considered one of
theworld’spremiersafehavencurrencies.
The reason why the U.S. dollar was previously considered one
of the world’s premier safe haven currencies was because prior to
September 11, 2001, the risk of severe U.S. instability was very low.
The United States was known to have one of the safest and most de-
veloped markets in the world. The safe haven status of the dollar al-
lowed the United States to attract investment at a discounted rate of
return, resulting in 76 percent of global currency reserves being held
indollars.AnotherreasonwhycurrencyreservesareheldinU.S.dol-
lars is the fact that the dollar is the world’s dominant factoring cur-
rency. In choosing a reserve currency, the dollar’s safe haven status
alsoplayedamajorroleforforeigncentralbanks.However,post-9/11,
foreignholdersofU.S.assets,includingcentralbanks,haveparedtheir
dollarholdingsasaresultofincreasedU.S.uncertaintyanddecreased
interestrates.TheemergenceoftheeurohasalsothreatenedtheU.S.
dollar’s status as the world’s premier reserve currency. Many central
bankshavealreadybeguntodiversifytheirreservesbyreducingtheir
dollar holdings and increasing their euro holdings. This will continue
tobeamajortrendthatalltradersshouldwatchforintheyearsahead.
(cid:1)
The U.S. dollar moves in the opposite direction from gold
prices.
As indicated in Figure 12.1, gold prices and the U.S. dollar have
historicallyhadanearperfectinverserelationshipandarenearperfect
mirrorimagesofeachother;thismeansthatwhengoldpricesrise,the
dollar falls, and vice versa. This inverse relationship stems from the
factthatgoldismeasuredindollars.Dollardepreciationduetoglobal
uncertaintyhasbeentheprimaryreasonforgoldappreciation,asgold
iscommonlyviewedastheultimateformofmoney.Goldisalsoseen
asthepremiersafehavencommodity;therefore,intimesofgeopoliti-
caluncertaintyinvestorstendtoflocktogold,whichinessencehurts
thedollar.

P1:JYS
c12 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 17:48 Printer:Yettocome
220 DAYTRADINGANDSWINGTRADINGTHECURRENCYMARKET
Price of Gold vs. Dollar Index 2000–2008
dloG
fo
ecirP
0001
008
006
004
Price of Gold (Ihs)
Dollar Index (rhs)
2000 2002 2004 2006 2008
021
011
001
09
08
07
xednI
ralloD
FIGURE 12.1 GoldversusDollarChart
(cid:1)
Many emerging market countries peg their local currencies to
thedollar.
Pegging a currency to the dollar pertains to the basic idea that a
governmentagreestomaintaintheU.S.dollarasareservecurrencyby
offeringtobuyorsellanyamountofdomesticcurrencyatthepegged
rateforthereservecurrency.Thesegovernmentstypicallyhavetoalso
promisetoholdreservecurrencyatleastequaltotheamountoflocal
currency in circulation. This is very important because these central
banks have become large holders of U.S. dollars and take an active
interest in managing their fixed or floating pegs. Countries with cur-
renciespeggedtothedollarincludeHongKongand,upuntilJuly2005,
Chinaaswell.Chinaisaveryactiveparticipantinthecurrencymarket
becauseitsmaximumfloatperdayiscontrolledwithinanarrowband
based on the previous day’s closing rate against the USD. Any fluctu-
ationsbeyondthisbandduringthedaywillbesubjecttointervention
bythecentralbank,whichwillincludebuyingorsellingofU.S.dollars.

P1:JYS
c12 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 17:48 Printer:Yettocome
ProfilesandUniqueCharacteristicsofMajorCurrencyPairs 221
Prior to July 21, 2005, China had pegged its currency at a rate of 8.3
yuantotheU.S.dollar.Afteryearsofpressuretorevalueitscurrency,
Chinaadjusteditsexchangerateto8.11yuanandresettheratetothe
closingpriceofthecurrencyeachday.Alongwiththis,Chinaisgrad-
uallymovingtoamanagedfloatreferencingabasketofcurrencies.
Over the past year or two, the market has paid particular atten-
tion to the purchasing habits of these central banks. Talk of reserve
diversification or more currency flexibility in the exchange rates of
these Asian countries means that these central banks may have less
ofaneedtoownU.S.dollarsanddollar-denominatedassets.Ifthisis
true,itcouldbeverynegativefortheU.S.dollaroverthelongterm.
(cid:1)
InterestratedifferentialsbetweenU.S.Treasuriesandforeign
bondsarestronglyfollowed.
The interest ratedifferential between U.S. Treasuries and foreign
bondsisaveryimportantrelationshipthatprofessionalFXtradersfol-
low.Itcanbeastrongindicatorofpotentialcurrencymovementsbe-
cause the U.S. market is one of the largest markets in the world and
investors are very sensitive to the yields that are offered by U.S. as-
sets.Largeinvestorsareconstantlylookingforassetswiththehighest
yields.AsyieldsintheU.S.decreaseorifyieldsabroadincrease,this
would induce investors to sell their U.S. assets and purchase foreign
assets. Selling U.S. fixed income or equity assets would influence the
currency market because that would require selling U.S. dollars and
buyingtheforeigncurrency.IfU.S.yieldsincreaseorforeignyieldsde-
crease, investors in general would be more inclined to purchase U.S.
assets,thereforeboostingtheUSD.
(cid:1)
KeepaneyeontheDollarIndex.
MarketparticipantscloselyfollowtheU.S.DollarIndex(USDX)as
agaugeofoveralldollarstrengthorweakness.TheUSDXisafutures
contract traded on the New York Board of Trade that is calculated
usingthetrade-weightedgeometricaverageofsixcurrencies.Itisim-
portant to follow this index because when market participants are
reporting general dollar weakness or a decline in the trade-weighted
dollar,theyaretypicallyreferringtothisindex.Also,eventhoughthe
dollarmayhavemovedsignificantlyagainstonesinglecurrency,itmay
nothavemovedassignificantlyonatrade-weightedbasis.Thisisim-
portant because some central bankers may choose to focus on the
trade-weighted index instead of the individual currency pair’s perfor-
manceagainstthedollar.
(cid:1)
U.S.currencytradingisimpactedbystockandbondmarkets.
There is a strong correlation between a country’s equity and
fixed income markets and its currency: If the equity market is rising,
generally speaking, foreign investment dollars should be coming

P1:JYS
c12 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 17:48 Printer:Yettocome
222 DAYTRADINGANDSWINGTRADINGTHECURRENCYMARKET
in to seize the opportunity. If equity markets are falling, domestic
investorswillbesellingtheirsharesoflocalpubliclytradedfirmsonly
toseizeinvestmentopportunitiesabroad.Withfixedincomemarkets,
economies boasting the most valuable fixed income opportunities
withthehighestyieldswillbecapableofattractingforeigninvestment.
Daily fluctuations and developments in any of these markets reflect
movement of foreign portfolio investments, which in the end would
require foreign exchange transactions. Cross-border merger and
acquisition activities are also very important for FX traders towatch.
Large M&A deals, particularly those that involve a significant cash
portion, will have a notable impact on the currency markets, the
reason being that the acquirer will need to buy or sell dollars to fund
itscross-borderacquisitiontarget.
Important Economic Indicators for the
United States
AllofthefollowingeconomicindicatorsareimportantfortheU.S.dollar.
However,sincetheU.S.economyisserviceoriented,itisimportanttopay
particularattentiontonumbersfortheservicesector.
Employment—Nonfarm Payrolls The employment report is the
most important and widely watched indicator on the economic calendar.
Its importance is mostly due to political influences rather than pure eco-
nomicreasons,astheFedisunderstrictpressuretokeepunemployment
under control. As a result, interest rate policy is directly influenced by
employment conditions. The monthly report consists of data from two
different surveys, the Establishment Survey and the Household Survey.
The Establishment Survey takes data from nonfarm payroll employment,
averagehourlyworkweek,andtheaggregatehoursindex.TheHousehold
Survey gives information on the labor force, household employment, and
the unemployment rate. Currency traders tend to focus on seasonally
adjusted monthly unemployment rates and any meaningful changes in
nonfarmpayrolls.
ConsumerPriceIndex Theconsumerpriceindex(CPI)isakeygauge
ofinflation.Theindexmeasuresthepricesonafixedbasketofconsumer
goods. Economists tend to focus more on the CPI-U or the core inflation
rate,whichexcludesthevolatilefoodandenergycomponents.Theindica-
toriswidelywatchedbytheFXmarketsasitdrivesalotofactivity.
Producer Price Index The producer price index (PPI) is a family
of indexes that measures average changes in selling prices received by

P1:JYS
c12 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 17:48 Printer:Yettocome
ProfilesandUniqueCharacteristicsofMajorCurrencyPairs 223
domesticproducersfortheiroutput.ThePPItrackschangesinpricesfor
nearly every goods-producing industry in the domestic economy, includ-
ingagriculture,electricityandnaturalgas,forestry,fisheries,manufactur-
ing, and mining. Foreign exchange markets tend to focus on seasonally
adjustedfinishedgoodsPPIandhowtheindexhasreactedonamonthly,
quarterly,andannualizedbasis.
Gross Domestic Product Gross domestic product (GDP) is a mea-
sure of the total production and consumption of goods and services in
theUnitedStates.TheBureauofEconomicAnalysis(BEA)constructstwo
complementarymeasuresofGDP,onebasedonincomeandonebasedon
expenditures.TheadvancereleaseofGDP,whichoccursthemonthafter
eachquarterends,containssomeBEAestimatesfordatanotyetreleased,
inventories, and trade balance, and is the most important release. Other
releasesofGDParetypicallynotverysignificantunlessamajorrevisionis
made.
International Trade The balance of trade represents the difference
betweenexportsandimportsofforeigntradeingoodsandservices.Mer-
chandise data are provided for U.S. total foreign trade with all countries,
detailfortradewithspecificcountriesandregionsoftheworld,aswellas
for individual commodities. Traders tend to focus on seasonally adjusted
tradenumbersoverthree-monthperiodsassingle-monthtradeperiodsare
regardedasunreliable.
Employment Cost Index The employment cost index (ECI) data is
based on a survey of employer payrolls in the third month of the quarter
for the pay period ending on the 12th day of the month. The survey is a
probabilitysampleofapproximately3,600privateindustryemployersand
700stateandlocalgovernments,publicschools,andpublichospitals.The
big advantage of the ECI is that it includes nonwage costs, which add as
muchas30percenttototallaborcosts.ReactiontotheECIisoftenmuted
asitisgenerallyverystable.Itshouldbenoted,however,thatitisafavorite
indicatoroftheFed.
Institute for Supply Management (Formerly NAPM) The Insti-
tute for Supply Management (ISM) releases a monthly composite index
basedonsurveysof300purchasingmanagersnationwiderepresenting20
different industries regarding manufacturing activity. Index values above
50indicateanexpandingeconomy,whilevaluesbelow50areindicativeof
contraction.Thenumberiswidelywatched,asformerFedChairmanAlan
Greenspanoncestateditisoneofhisfavoriteindicators.

P1:JYS
c12 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 17:48 Printer:Yettocome
224 DAYTRADINGANDSWINGTRADINGTHECURRENCYMARKET
Industrial Production The Index of Industrial Production is a set
of indexes that measures the monthly physical output of U.S. factories,
mines,andutilities.Theindexisbrokendownbyindustrytypeandmarket
type. Foreign exchange markets focus mostly on the seasonally adjusted
monthly change in aggregate figure. Increases in the index are typically
dollarpositive.
Consumer Confidence The Consumer Confidence Survey measures
the level of confidence individual households have in the performance of
theeconomy.Surveyquestionnairesaresentouttoanationwiderepresen-
tativesampleof5,000households,ofwhichapproximately3,500respond.
Households are asked five questions: (1) a rating of business conditions
inthehousehold’sarea,(2)aratingofbusinessconditionsinsixmonths,
(3)jobavailabilityinthearea,(4)jobavailabilityinsixmonths,and(5)fam-
ilyincomeinsixmonths.Responsesareseasonallyadjustedandanindexis
constructedforeachresponse;thenacompositeindexisfashionedbased
ontheaggregateresponses.Marketparticipantsperceiverisingconsumer
confidenceasaprecursortohigherconsumerspending.Higherconsumer
spendingisoftenseenasasparkthatacceleratesinflation.
Retail Sales The Retail Sales Index measures the total goods sold by
a sampling of retail stores over the course of a month. This index is used
asagaugeofconsumerconsumptionandconsumerconfidence.Themost
importantnumberistypicallyex-autos,asautosalescanvaryfrommonth
tomonth.Retailsalescanbequitevolatileduetoseasonality;however,the
indexisanimportantindicatorofthegeneralhealthoftheeconomy.
Treasury International Capital Flow Data (TIC Data) TheTrea-
suryinternationalcapitalflowdatameasurestheamountofcapitalinflow
into the United States on a monthly basis. This economic release has be-
come increasingly important over the past few years since the funding of
theU.S.deficitisbecomingmoreofanissue.Asidefromtheheadlinenum-
beritself,themarketalsopayscloseattentiontotheofficialflows,which
representthedemandforU.S.governmentdebtbyforeigncentralbanks.
CURRENCY PROFILE: EURO (EUR)
Broad Economic Overview
The European Union (EU) was developed as an institutional framework
for the construction of a united Europe. The EU currently consists of
15 member countries: Austria, Belgium, Denmark, Finland, France,

P1:JYS
c12 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 17:48 Printer:Yettocome
ProfilesandUniqueCharacteristicsofMajorCurrencyPairs 225
Germany, Greece, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Portugal,
Spain, Sweden, and the United Kingdom. All of these countries share the
euroasacommoncurrency,exceptforDenmark,Sweden,andtheUnited
Kingdom. The 12 common currency countries constitute the European
Monetary Union (EMU) and also share a single monetary policy dictated
bytheEuropeanCentralBank(ECB).
The EMU is the world’s second largest economic power, with gross
domestic product valued at approximately US$12 trillion in 2006. With a
highly developed fixed income, equity, and futures market, the EMU has
the second most attractive investment market for domestic and interna-
tionalinvestors.Inthepast,theEMUhashaddifficultyinattractingforeign
directinvestmentorlargecapitalflows.Infact,theEMUisanetsupplier
offoreigndirectinvestments,accountingforapproximately45percentof
total world capital outflows and only 19 percent of capital inflows. The
primary reason is because historically U.S. assets have had solid returns.
As a result, the United States absorbs 71 percent of total foreign savings.
However, with the euro becoming a more established currency and the
EuropeanMonetaryUnionbeginningtoincorporateevenmoremembers,
theeuro’simportanceasareservecurrencyisrisingintandem.Asaresult,
capital flows to Europe have been increasing. With foreign central banks
expectedtodiversifytheireuroreserveholdingsevenfurther,demandfor
eurosshouldcontinuetoincrease.
The EMU is both a trade-driven and capital flow–driven economy;
therefore trade is very important to the economies within the EMU. Un-
likemostmajoreconomies,theEMUdoesnothavealargetradedeficitor
surplus.Infact,theEMUwentfromasmalltradedeficitin2003toasmall
trade surplus in 2006. EU exports comprise approximately 19 percent of
world trade, while EU imports account for only 17 percent of total world
imports.BecauseofthesizeoftheEMU’stradewiththerestoftheworld,
ithassignificantpowerintheinternationaltradearena.Internationalclout
is one of the primary goals in the formation of the EU, because it allows
the individual countries to group as one entity and negotiate on an equal
playingfieldwiththeUnitedStates,whichistheirlargesttradingpartner.
ThebreakdownsofthemostimportanttradingpartnersfortheEUare:
LeadingExportMarkets
1. UnitedStates
2. Switzerland
3. Japan
4. Poland
5. China

P1:JYS
c12 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 17:48 Printer:Yettocome
226 DAYTRADINGANDSWINGTRADINGTHECURRENCYMARKET
LeadingImportSources
1. UnitedStates
2. Japan
3. China
4. Switzerland
5. Russia
The EMU is primarily a service-oriented economy. Services in 2001
accounted for approximately 70 percent of GDP, while manufacturing,
mining,andutilitiesaccountedforonly22percentofGDP.Infact,alarge
number of the companies whose primary purpose is to produce finished
productsstillconcentratetheirEUactivityoninnovation,research,design,
and marketing, while outsourcing most of their manufacturing activities
toAsia.
The EU’s growing role in international trade has important implica-
tionsfortheroleoftheeuroasareservecurrency.Itisimportantforcoun-
triestohavelargeamountsofreservecurrenciestoreduceexchangerisk
andtransactioncosts.Traditionally,mostinternationaltradetransactions
involvetheBritishpound,theJapaneseyen,and/ortheU.S.dollar.Before
the establishment of the euro, it was unreasonable to hold large amounts
of every individual European national currency. As a result, currency re-
serves tended toward the dollar. At the end of the 1990s, approximately
65percentofallworldreserveswereheldinU.S.dollars,butwiththein-
troduction of the euro, foreign reserve assets are shifting in favor of the
euro. This trend is expected to continue as the EU becomes one of the
majortradingpartnersformostcountriesaroundtheworld.
Monetary and Fiscal Policy Makers—The
European Central Bank
The European Central Bank (ECB) is the governing body responsible for
determiningthemonetarypolicyofthecountriesparticipatingintheEMU.
TheexecutiveboardoftheEMUconsistsofthepresidentoftheECB,the
vicepresidentoftheECB,andfourothermembers.Theseindividualsalong
with the governors of the national central banks comprise the Governing
Council. The ECB is set up so that the executive board implements the
policiesdictatedbytheGoverningCouncil.Newmonetarypolicydecisions
aretypicallymadebymajorityvote,withthepresidenthavingthedeciding
vote in the event of a tie, in biweekly meetings. Although the ECB meets
onabiweeklybasisandhasthepowertochangemonetarypolicyateach
ofthosemeetings,itisonlyexpectedtodosoatmeetingswhereanofficial
pressconferenceisscheduledafterward.

P1:JYS
c12 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 17:48 Printer:Yettocome
ProfilesandUniqueCharacteristicsofMajorCurrencyPairs 227
TheEMU’sprimaryobjectiveistomaintainpricestabilityandtopro-
motegrowth.Monetaryandfiscalpolicychangesaremadetoensurethat
thisobjectiveismet.WiththeformationoftheEMU,theMaastrichtTreaty
was developed by the EU to apply a number of criteria for each member
countrytohelptheEUachieveitsobjective.Deviationsfromthesecriteria
byanyonecountrywillresultinheavyfines.Itisapparent,basedonthese
criteria,thattheECBhasastrictmandatefocusedoninflationanddeficit.
Generally, the ECB strives to maintain annual growth in Harmonized In-
dex of Consumer Prices (HICP) below 2 percent and M3 (money supply)
annualgrowtharound4.5percent.
The EMU Criteria In the 1992 Treaty on European Union (the Maas-
tricht Treaty) the following criteria wereformulated as preconditions for
anyEUmemberstatejoiningtheEuropeanMonetaryUnion(EMU).
(cid:1)
A rate of inflation no more than 1.5 percent above the average of
the three best-performing member states, taking the average of the
12-monthyear-on-yearrateprecedingtheassessmentdate.
(cid:1)
Long-terminterestratesnotexceedingtheaverageratesoftheselow-
inflationstatesbymorethan2percentforthepreceding12months.
(cid:1)
Exchange rates that fluctuate within the normal margins of the
exchange-ratemechanism(ERM)foratleasttwoyears.
(cid:1)
Ageneralgovernmentdebt/GDPratioofnotmorethan60percent,al-
thoughahigherratiomaybepermissibleifitis“sufficientlydiminish-
ing.”
(cid:1)
Ageneralgovernmentdeficitnotexceeding3percentofGDP,although
asmallandtemporaryexcesscanbepermitted.
The ECB and the European System of Central Banks (ESCB) are
independent institutions from both national governments and other EU
institutions, granting them complete control over monetary policy. This
operational independence is accorded to them as per Article 108 of the
Maastricht Treaty, which states that any member of the decision-making
bodiescannotseekortakeinstructionsfromanycommunityinstitutions,
any government of a member state, or any other body. The primary tools
theECBusestocontrolmonetarypolicyare:
Open Market Operations TheECBhasfourmaincategoriesofopen
marketoperationstosteerinterestrates,manageliquidity,andsignalmon-
etarypolicystance.
1. Mainrefinancingoperations.Theseareregularliquidity-providingre-
verse transactions conducted weekly with a maturity of two weeks,
whichprovidethebulkofrefinancingtothefinancialsector.

P1:JYS
c12 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 17:48 Printer:Yettocome
228 DAYTRADINGANDSWINGTRADINGTHECURRENCYMARKET
2. Longer-termrefinancingoperations.Theseareliquidity-providingre-
verse transactions with a monthly frequency and a maturity of three
months, which provide counterparties with additional longer-term
refinancing.
3. Fine-tuning operations. These are executed on an ad hoc basis with
theaimofbothmanagingtheliquiditysituationinthemarketandsteer-
inginterestrates,inparticularinordertosmooththeeffectsoninter-
estratescausedbyunexpectedliquidityfluctuations.
4. Structuraloperations.Theseinvolvetheissuanceofdebtcertificates,
reversetransactions, andoutrighttransactions.Theseoperationswill
be executed whenever the ECB wishes to adjust the structural posi-
tion of the Eurosystem vis-a`-vis the financial sector (on a regular or
nonregularbasis).
ECB Minimum Bid Rate (Repo Rate) The ECB minimum bid rate
is the key policy target for the ECB. It is the level of borrowing that the
ECBofferstothecentralbanksofitsmemberstates.Thisisalsotherate
thatissubjecttochangeatthebiweeklyECBmeetings.Sinceinflationisof
highconcerntotheECB,itismoreinclinedtokeepinterestratesatlofty
levels to prevent inflation. Changes in the ECB’s minimum bid rate have
largeramificationsfortheeuro.
TheECBdoesnothaveanexchangeratetarget,butwillfactorinex-
changeratesinitspolicydeliberations,asexchangeratesimpactpricesta-
bility.Therefore,theECBisnotpreventedfrominterveningintheforeign
exchangemarketsifitbelievesthatinflationisaconcern.Asaresult,com-
ments by members of the Governing Council are widely watched by FX
marketparticipantsandfrequentlymovetheeuro.
The ECB publishes a monthly bulletin detailing analysis of economic
developmentsandchangestoitsperceptionsofeconomicconditions;itis
importanttofollowthebulletinforsignalstochangesinthebiasofmone-
tarypolicy.
Important Characteristics of the Euro
(cid:1)
TheEUR/USDcrossisthemostliquidcurrency;allmajoreuro
crossesareveryliquid.
The euro was introduced as an electronic currency on January 1,
1999. At this time, the euro replaced all pre-EMU currencies, except
for Greece’s currency, which was converted to the euro in January
2001.Asaresult,theEUR/USDcrossisnowthemostliquidcurrency
in the world and its movements are used as the primary gauge of the
health of both the European and U.S. economies. The euro is most

P1:JYS
c12 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 17:48 Printer:Yettocome
ProfilesandUniqueCharacteristicsofMajorCurrencyPairs 229
frequently known as the “anti-dollar” since it is dollar fundamentals
that have dictated the currency pair’s movements between 2003 and
2008.(SeeFigure12.2.)
EUR/JPY and EUR/CHF are also very liquid currencies that are
generally used as gauges to the health of the Japanese and Swiss
economies. The EUR/USD and EUR/GBP crosses are great trading
currencies,astheyhavetightspreads,makeorderlymoves,andrarely
gap.
(cid:1)
Theeurohasuniquerisks.
Having been launched in 1999, the euro is still a relatively new
currency. There are a number of factors that need to be considered
as risks to the euro that may never be problems for other currencies:
namely, the exposure to the economic, political, and social develop-
mentsof15membercountries.Althoughthenumberofcountriesusing
theeuroisexpectedtogrow,ifanycountriesstartdroppingtheeuro
and reverting back to their original currency because they do not be-
lievethattheECB’sactionsareintheirbestinterest,itcouldaffectthe
stabilityoftheentireregion.Theeuroistheonlycurrencyintheworld
without a country. Even though Germany, France, Italy, and Spain
are the largest and most economically dominant countries within the
Eurozone, the European Central Bank has the power and the respon-
sibility to determine monetary policy for all 15 of its member coun-
tries. With that comes the political pressure of 15 governments that
frequentlytestandcriticizetheactionsoftheEuropeanCentralBank.
FIGURE 12.2 EUR/USDFive-YearChart
(Source:www.eSignal.com)

P1:JYS
c12 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 17:48 Printer:Yettocome
230 DAYTRADINGANDSWINGTRADINGTHECURRENCYMARKET
Upuntilthesubprimecrisis,theECBwasanewanduntestedcentral
bank. However, its rapid response to the credit crunch and its deep
liquidityinjectionshavetransformeditsreputation.
(cid:1)
The spread between 10-year U.S. Treasuries and 10-year
bundscanindicateeurosentiment.
The10-yeargovernmentbondsserveasanimportantindicatorof
futureeuroexchangerates,especiallyagainsttheU.S.dollar.Thedif-
ferential between the 10-year U.S. government bond and the 10-year
Germanbundratescanprovideagoodindicationforeuromovement.
If bund rates are higher than Treasury rates and the differential in-
creasesorthespreadwidens,thisimplieseurobullishness.Adecrease
inthedifferentialorspreadtighteningtendstobebearishfortheeuro.
The10-yearGermanbundistypicallyusedasthebenchmarkbondfor
theEurozone.
(cid:1)
Predictionsforeuroareamoneyflows.
Another useful interest rate is the three-month interest rate, also
knownastheeurointerbankofferrate(Euriborrate).Thisistherate
offered from one large bank to another on interbank term deposits.
Traders tend to compare the Euribor futures rate with the Eurodol-
lar futures rate. Eurodollars are deposits denominated in U.S. dollars
atbanksandotherfinancialinstitutionsoutsidetheUnitedStates.Be-
cause investors like high-yielding assets, European fixed income as-
sets become more attractive as the spread between Euribor futures
andEurodollarfutureswidensinfavoroftheEuribors.Asthespread
narrows, European assets become less attractive, thereby implying a
potentialdecreaseinmoneyflowsintotheeuro.
Mergerandacquisitionactivityalsohasimportantimplicationsfor
EUR/USDmovements.RecentyearshaveseenincreasedM&Aactivity
betweenEUandU.S.multinationals.Largedeals,especiallyifincash,
oftenhavesignificantshort-termimpactsontheEUR/USD.
Important Indicators for the Euro
Allofthefollowingeconomicindicatorsareimportantfortheeuro.How-
ever,sincetheEMUconsistsof12countries,itisimportanttokeepabreast
ofpoliticalandeconomicdevelopmentssuchasGDPgrowth,inflation,and
unemploymentforallmembercountries.Thelargestcountrieswithinthe
EMUareGermany,France,andItaly.Therefore,inadditiontotheoverall
EMU economic data, the economic data of these three countries are the
mostimportant.
Preliminary GDP Preliminary GDP is issued when Eurostat has col-
lecteddatafromasufficientnumberofcountriestoproduceanestimate.

P1:JYS
c12 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 17:48 Printer:Yettocome
ProfilesandUniqueCharacteristicsofMajorCurrencyPairs 231
This usually includes France, Germany, and the Netherlands. However,
Italy is not included in the preliminary release and is only added in the
final number. The yearly aggregates for EU-15 and EMU-11 are a simple
sumofnationalGDP.Forthequarterlyaccounts,theaggregationismore
complexsincesomecountries(Greece,Ireland,andLuxembourg)donot
yetproducequarterlynationalaccountsdata.Moreover,Portugalproduces
onlypartialquarterlyaccountswithasignificantlag.Thus,boththeEU-15
andEMU-11quarterlypathsaretheresultofestimatesfromquarterlydata
basedonagroupofcountriesaccountingformorethan95percentoftotal
EUGDP.
German Industrial Production The industrial production data is
seasonally adjusted and includes a breakdown into four major subcate-
gories:mining,manufacturing,energy,andconstruction.Themanufactur-
ing aggregate comprises four main product groups: basic and producer
goods,capitalgoods,consumerdurables,andconsumernondurables.The
markettendstopayattentiontotheannualrateofchangeandtheseason-
ally adjusted month-on-month figure. Germany’s figure is most important
since it is the largest country in the Eurozone; however, the market also
occasionally reacts based on French industrial production. The initial in-
dustrialproductionreleaseisbasedonanarrowerdatasampleandhence
subjecttorevisionwhenthefullsamplehasbecomeavailable.TheFinance
Ministryoccasionallyindicatestheexpecteddirectionoftherevisioninthe
initialdatarelease.
Inflation Indicators
HarmonizedIndexofConsumerPrices TheEUHarmonizedIndex
ofConsumerPrices(HICP)publishedbyEurostatisdesignedforinterna-
tionalcomparisonasrequiredbyEUlaw.Eurostathaspublishedtheindex
sinceJanuary1995.SinceJanuary1998,Eurostathaspublishedaspecific
indexfortheEMU-11areacalledMUICP.Informationonpricesisretrieved
byeachnationalstatisticalagency.TheyarerequiredtoprovideEurostat
withthe100indexesusedtocomputetheHICP.ThenationalHICPsareto-
taledbyEurostatasaweightedaverageofthesesubindexes.Theweights
usedarecountryspecific.TheHICPisreleasedattheendofthemonthfol-
lowingthereferenceperiod,whichisabout10daysafterthepublications
of the national CPIs from Spain and France, the final EMU-5 countries to
release their CPIs. Even if the information is already partly in the market
when the HICP is released, it isan important release because itserves as
thereferenceinflationindexfortheECB.TheECBaimstokeepEuroland
consumerpriceinflationinarangeof0to2percent.

P1:JYS
c12 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 17:48 Printer:Yettocome
232 DAYTRADINGANDSWINGTRADINGTHECURRENCYMARKET
M3 M3 isabroad measure of money supply, which includes everything
fromnotesandcoinstobankdeposits.TheECBcloselymonitorsM3,asit
isviewedasakeymeasureofinflation.AtitssessioninDecember1998,the
GoverningCounciloftheECBsetitsfirstreferencevalueforM3growthat
4.5percent.Thisvaluesupportsinflationbelow2percent,trendgrowthof
2to2.5percent,andalong-termdeclineinthevelocityofmoneyby0.5to
1percent.Thegrowthrateismonitoredonathree-monthmovingaverage
basisinordertopreventmonthlyvolatilityfromdistortingtheinformation
given by the aggregate. The ECB’s approach to monetary targeting leaves
considerableroomformaneuverandinterpretation.BecausetheECBdoes
notimposebandsonM3growth,astheBundesbankusedtodo,therewill
benoautomaticactionwhenM3growthdivergesfromthereferencevalue.
Moreover, although the ECB considers M3 to be the key indicator, it will
alsotakeintoaccountthechangesinothermonetaryaggregates.
German Unemployment The release by the Labor Office contains in-
formation on the number of unemployed, as well as the changes on the
previous month, in both seasonally adjusted (SA) and nonseasonally ad-
justed (NSA) terms. The NSA unemployment rate is provided, along with
data on vacancies, short-shift working arrangements, and the number of
employees(temporarilysuspendedin1999).WithinanhouraftertheFed-
eralLaborOffice(FLO)release,theBundesbankreleasestheSAunemploy-
mentrate.Thedayaheadoftherelease,thereisoftenaleakoftheofficial
datafromatradeunionsource.TheleakisusuallyoftheNSAlevelofun-
employment in millions. When a precise figure is reported on Reuters as
givenby“sources”fortheNSAlevelofunemployment,theleakusuallyre-
flectstheofficialfigures.Rumorsoftencirculateuptooneweekbeforethe
officialrelease,butthesearenotoriouslyimprecise.Moreover,comments
by German officials have in the past been mistranslated by the interna-
tionalpress,socareneedstobeexercisedininterpretingnewsreportsof
rumors.
Individual Country Budget Deficits TheStabilityandGrowthPact
states that deficits must be kept below 3 percent of GDP. Countries also
have targets set to further reduce their deficits. Failure to meet these tar-
getsiswidelywatchedbymarketparticipants.
IFO(InformationandForschung[research])Survey Germanyis
byfarthelargesteconomyinEuropeandisresponsibleforover30percent
oftotalGDP.AnyinsightintoGermanbusinessconditionsisseenasanin-
sightintoEuropeasawhole.TheIFOisamonthlysurveyconductedbythe
IFOinstituteinwhichover7,000Germanfirmsareaskedfortheirassess-
mentoftheGermanbusinessclimateandtheirshort-termplans.Theinitial

P1:JYS
c12 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 17:48 Printer:Yettocome
ProfilesandUniqueCharacteristicsofMajorCurrencyPairs 233
publication of the results consists of the business climate headline figure
anditstwoequallyweightedsubindexes:currentbusinessconditionsand
business expectations. The typical range is from 80 to 120, with a higher
numberindicatinggreaterbusinessconfidence.Themeasureismostvalu-
able,however,whenmeasuredagainstpreviousdata.
CURRENCY PROFILE: BRITISH
POUND (GBP)
Broad Economic Overview
TheUnitedKingdomistheworld’sfourthlargesteconomywithGDPval-
uedatapproximatelyUS$2trillionin2006.Withoneofthemosteffective
central banks in the world, the U.K. economy has benefited from many
yearsofstronggrowth,lowunemployment,expandingoutput,andresilient
consumption. The strength of consumer consumption has in large part
beenduethecountry’sstronghousingmarket,whichpeakedin2003.The
UnitedKingdomhasaservice-orientedeconomy,withmanufacturingrep-
resenting an increasingly smaller portion of GDP, now equivalent to only
one-fifthofnationaloutput.Thecapitalmarketsystemsareoneofthemost
developedintheworld,andasaresultfinanceandbankinghavebecome
the strongest contributors to GDP. Although the majority of the United
Kingdom’sGDPisfromservices,itisimportanttoknowthatitisalsoone
ofthelargestproducersandexportersofnaturalgasintheEU.Theenergy
production industry accounts for 10 percent of GDP, which is one of the
highest shares of any industrialized nation. This is particularly important,
asincreasesinenergyprices(suchasoil)willsignificantlybenefitthelarge
number of U.K. oil exporters. (The United Kingdom did become a net oil
importerforabriefperiodduetodisruptionsintheNorthSeain2003,but
hasalreadyresumeditsstatusasanetoilexporter.)
Overall,theUnitedKingdomisanetimporterofgoodswithaconsis-
tenttradedeficit.ItslargesttradingpartneristheEU,withtradebetween
thetwoconstituenciesaccountingforover50percentofallofthecountry’s
importandexportactivities.TheUnitedStates,onanindividualbasis,still
remainstheUnitedKingdom’slargesttradingpartner.Thebreakdownsof
themostimportanttradingpartnersfortheUnitedKingdomare:
LeadingExportMarkets
1. UnitedStates
2. France
3. Germany

P1:JYS
c12 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 17:48 Printer:Yettocome
234 DAYTRADINGANDSWINGTRADINGTHECURRENCYMARKET
4. Ireland
5. Netherlands
LeadingImportSources
1. Germany
2. France
3. UnitedStates
4. Netherlands
5. Belgium
AlthoughtheUnitedKingdomrejectedadoptingtheeuroinJune2003,
the possibility of euro adoption will still be a factor in the backs of the
mindsofpoundtradersformanyyearstocome.IftheUnitedKingdomde-
cided to join the EMU, doing so would have significant ramifications for
itseconomy,themostimportantofwhichisthatU.K.interestrateswould
havetobeadjustedtoreflecttheequivalentinterestrateoftheEurozone.
OneoftheprimaryargumentsagainstjoiningtheEMUisthattheU.K.gov-
ernmenthassoundmacroeconomicpoliciesthathaveworkedverywellfor
thecountry.ItssuccessfulmonetaryandfiscalpolicieshaveledtheUnited
Kingdomtooutperformmostmajoreconomiesthrougharecenteconomic
downturn,includingtheEU.
The U.K. Treasury has previously specified five economic tests that
mustbemetpriortoeuroadoption.
UnitedKingdom’sFiveEconomicTestsfortheEuro
1. Is there sustainable convergence in business cycles and economic
structuresbetweentheUnitedKingdomandotherEMUmembers,so
thattheU.K.citizenscouldlivecomfortablywitheurointerestrateson
apermanentbasis?
2. Isthereenoughflexibilitytocopewitheconomicchange?
3. Would joining the EMU create an environment that would encourage
firmstoinvestintheUnitedKingdom?
4. WouldjoiningtheEMUhaveapositiveimpactonthecompetitiveness
oftheUnitedKingdom’sfinancialservicesindustry?
5. WouldjoiningtheEMUbegoodforpromotingstabilityandgrowthin
employment?
TheUnitedKingdomisaverypoliticalcountrywheregovernmentof-
ficials are highly concerned with voter approval. If voters do not support

P1:JYS
c12 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 17:48 Printer:Yettocome
ProfilesandUniqueCharacteristicsofMajorCurrencyPairs 235
euro entry, the likelihood of EMU entry would decline. The following are
someoftheargumentsforandagainstadoptingtheeuro.
ArgumentsinFavorofAdoptingtheEuro
(cid:1)
ReducedexchangerateuncertaintyforU.K.businessesandlowerex-
changeratetransactioncostsorrisks.
(cid:1)
The prospect of sustained low inflation under the governance of the
European Central Bank should reduce long-term interest rates and
stimulatesustainedeconomicgrowth.
(cid:1)
Singlecurrencypromotespricetransparency.
(cid:1)
The integration of national financial markets of the EU will lead to
higherefficiencyintheallocationofcapitalinEurope.
(cid:1)
TheeuroisthesecondmostimportantreservecurrencyaftertheU.S.
dollar.
(cid:1)
With the United Kingdom joining the EMU, the political clout of the
EMUwouldincreasedramatically.
ArgumentsagainstAdoptingtheEuro
(cid:1)
Currencyunionshavecollapsedinthepast.
(cid:1)
Economic or political instabilities of one country would impact the
euro, which would have exchange rate ramifications for otherwise
healthycountries.
(cid:1)
StrictEMUcriteriaareoutlinedbytheStabilityandGrowthPact.
(cid:1)
Entrywouldmeanapermanenttransferofdomesticmonetaryauthor-
itytotheEuropeanCentralBank.
(cid:1)
Joining a currency union with no monetary flexibility would require
the United Kingdom to have more flexibility in the labor and housing
markets.
(cid:1)
TherearefearsaboutwhichcountriesmightdominatetheECB.
(cid:1)
Adjustingtonewcurrencywillrequirelargetransactioncosts.
Monetary and Fiscal Policy Makers—Bank
of England
The Bank of England (BOE) is the United Kingdom’s central bank. The
MonetaryPolicyCommittee(MPC)isanine-membercommitteethatsets
monetary policy for the United Kingdom. It consists of a governor, two
deputy governors, two executive directors of the central bank, and four
outsideexperts.Thecommitteewasgrantedoperationalindependencein
setting monetary policy in 1997. Despite this independence, their mone-
tarypoliciesarecenteredaroundachievinganinflationtargetdictatedby
theTreasuryChancellor.Currently,thistargetisretailpriceindex(RPIX)

P1:JYS
c12 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 17:48 Printer:Yettocome
236 DAYTRADINGANDSWINGTRADINGTHECURRENCYMARKET
inflation of 2.5 percent. The central bank has the power to change inter-
estratestolevelsthatitbelieveswillallowittomeetthistarget.TheMPC
holdsmonthlymeetings,whicharecloselyfollowedforannouncementson
changes in monetary policy, including changes in the interest rate (bank
reporate).
TheMPCpublishesstatementsaftereverymeeting,alongwithaquar-
terlyInflationReportdetailingtheMPC’sforecastsforthenexttwoyears
of growth and inflation and justification for its policy movements. In ad-
dition, another publication, the Quarterly Bulletin, provides information
onpastmonetarypolicymovementsandanalysisoftheinternationaleco-
nomic environment and its impacts on the U.K. economy. All of these re-
ports contain detailed information on the MPC’s policies and biases for
futurepolicymovements.ThemainpolicytoolsusedbytheMPCandBOE
follow.
Bank Repo Rate Thisisthekeyrateusedinmonetarypolicytomeet
theTreasury’sinflationtarget.Thisrateissetforthebank’sownoperations
inthemarket,suchastheshort-termlendingactivities.Changestothisrate
affect therates set bythe commercial banks for theirsavers and borrow-
ers.Inturn,thisratewillaffectspendingandoutputintheeconomy,and
eventuallycostsandprices.Anincreaseinthisratewouldimplyanattempt
tocurbinflation,whileadecreaseinthisratewouldbetostimulategrowth
andexpansion.
Open Market Operations The goal of open market operations is to
implementthechangesinthebankreporate,whileassuringadequateliq-
uidityinthemarketandcontinuedstabilityinthebankingsystem.Thisis
reflectiveofthethreemainobjectivesoftheBOE:maintainingtheintegrity
andvalueofthecurrency,maintainingthestabilityofthefinancialsystem,
andseekingtoensuretheeffectivenessoftheUnitedKingdom’sfinancial
services. To ensure liquidity, the bank conducts daily open market oper-
ations to buy or sell short-term government fixed income instruments. If
this is not sufficient to meet liquidity needs, the BOE would also conduct
additionalovernightoperations.
Important Characteristics of the British Pound
(cid:1)
GBP/USDisveryliquid.
The GBP/USD is one of the most liquid currencies in the world,
with 6 percent of all currency trading involving the British pound as
eitherthebaseorcountercurrency.Itisalsooneofthefourmostliq-
uid currencies available for trading (among the EUR/USD, GBP/USD,
USD/JPY, and USD/CHF). One of the reasons for the currency’s

P1:JYS
c12 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 17:48 Printer:Yettocome
ProfilesandUniqueCharacteristicsofMajorCurrencyPairs 237
liquidity is the country’s highly developed capital markets. Many for-
eigninvestorsseekingopportunitiesotherthantheUnitedStateshave
senttheirfundstotheUnitedKingdom.Inordertocreatetheseinvest-
ments,foreignerswillneedtoselltheirlocalcurrencyandbuyBritish
pounds.(SeeFigure12.3.)
(cid:1)
GBPhasthreenames.
TheU.K.’scurrencyhasthreenames—theBritishpound,Sterling,
andCable.Alloftheseareinterchangeable.
(cid:1)
GBPisladenwithspeculators.
At the time of publication, the British pound has one of the high-
estinterestratesamongthedevelopednations.AlthoughAustraliaand
NewZealandhavehigherinterestrates,theirfinancialmarketsarenot
asdevelopedasthatoftheUnitedKingdom.Asaresult,manyinvestors
who already have positions or are interested in initiating new carry
tradepositionsfrequentlyusetheGBPasthelendingcurrencyandwill
golongthepoundagainstcurrenciessuchastheU.S.dollar,Japanese
yen, and Swiss franc. A carry trade involves buying or lending a cur-
rency with a higher interest rate and selling or borrowing a currency
withalowerinterestrate.Inrecentyears,carrytradeshaveincreased
in popularity, which has helped spur demand for the British pound.
However,shouldtheinterestrateyielddifferentialbetweenthepound
andothercurrenciesnarrow,anexodusofcarrytraderswillincrease
volatilityintheBritishpound.
FIGURE 12.3 GBP/USDFive-YearChart
(Source:www.eSignal.com)

P1:JYS
c12 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 17:48 Printer:Yettocome
238 DAYTRADINGANDSWINGTRADINGTHECURRENCYMARKET
(cid:1)
Interestratedifferentialsbetweengiltsandforeignbondsare
closelyfollowed.
Interest rate differentials between U.K. gilts/U.S. Treasuries and
U.K. gilts/German bunds are widely watched by FX market partici-
pants. Gilts versus Treasuries can be a barometer of GBP/USD flows,
while gilts versus bunds can be used as a barometer for EUR/GBP
flows. More specifically, these interest rate differentials indicate how
much premium yield U.K. fixed income assets are offering over U.S.
and European fixed income assets (the German bund is usually used
as a barometer for European yield), or vice versa. This differential
providestraderswithindicationsofpotentialcapitalfloworcurrency
movements, as global investors are always shifting their capital in
searchfortheassetswiththehighestyields.TheUnitedKingdomcur-
rentlyprovides these yields, while also providing thesafety of having
thesamecreditstabilityastheUnitedStates.
(cid:1)
Eurosterling futures can give indications for interest
ratemovements.
Since the U.K. interest rate or bank repo rate is the primary tool
used in monetary policy, it is important to keep abreast of potential
changes to the interest rate. Comments from government officials is
one way to gauge biases for potential rate changes, but the Bank of
England is one of the few central banks that require members of the
Monetary Policy Committee to publish their voting records. This per-
sonalaccountabilityindicatesthatcommentsbyindividualcommittee
membersrepresenttheirownopinionsandnotthatoftheBOE.There-
fore,itisnecessarytolookforotherindicationsofpotentialBOErate
movements.Three-montheurosterlingfuturesreflectmarketexpecta-
tionsoneurosterlinginterestratesthreemonthsintothefuture.These
contractsarealsousefulinpredictingU.K.interestratechanges,which
willultimatelyaffectthefluctuationsoftheGBP/USD.
(cid:1)
CommentsoneurobyU.K.politicianswillimpacttheeuro.
Any speeches, remarks (especially from the prime minister or
Treasurychancellor),orpollsinregardtotheeurowillimpactthecur-
rencymarkets.Indicationforadoptionoftheeurotendstoputdown-
wardpressureontheGBP,whilefurtheroppositiontoeuroentrywill
typicallyboosttheGBP,thereasonbeingthatinorderfortheGBPto
come in line with the euro, interest rates would have to decrease sig-
nificantly(atthetimeofthiswriting,theUnitedKingdominterestrate
is 5.00 percent, versus euro interest rate of 4.00 percent). A decrease
in the interest rate would induce carry trade investors to close their
positions, or sell pounds. The GBP/USD would also decline because
of the uncertainties involved with euro adoption. The U.K. economy
is performing very well under the direction of its current monetary

P1:JYS
c12 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 17:48 Printer:Yettocome
ProfilesandUniqueCharacteristicsofMajorCurrencyPairs 239
authority. The EMU is currently encountering many difficulties with
membercountriesbreachingEMUcriteria.Withonemonetaryauthor-
itydictating12countries(plustheUnitedKingdomwouldbe13),the
EMUhasyettoprovethatithasdevelopedamonetarypolicysuitable
forallmemberstates.
(cid:1)
GBPhaspositivecorrelationwithenergyprices.
TheUnitedKingdomhousessomeofthelargestenergycompanies
in the world, including British Petroleum. Energy production repre-
sents10percentofGDP.Asaresult,theBritishpoundtendstohavea
positivecorrelationwithenergyprices.Specifically,sincemanymem-
bers of the EU import oil from the United Kingdom, as oil prices in-
crease,theywillinturnhavetobuymorepoundstofundtheirenergy
purchases. In addition, higher oil prices will also benefit the earnings
ofthenation’senergyexporters.
(cid:1)
GBPcrosses.
Although the GBP/USD is a more liquid currency than EUR/GBP,
EUR/GBP is typically the leading gauge for GBP strength. The
GBP/USD currency pair tends to be more sensitive to U.S. develop-
ments,whileEUR/GBPisamorepurefundamentalpoundtradesince
EURisBritain’sprimarytradeandinvestmentpartner.However,both
currenciesarenaturallyinterdependent,whichmeansthatmovements
intheEUR/GBPcrosscanfilterintomovementsintheGBP/USD.The
reverse is also true; that is, movements in GBP/USD will also affect
tradinginEUR/GBP.Thereforeitisimportantforpoundtraderstobe
consciouslyawareofthetradingbehaviorofbothcurrencypairs.The
EUR/GBPrateshouldbeexactlyequaltotheEUR/USDdividedbythe
GBP/USDrate.Smalldifferencesintheseratesareoftenexploitedby
marketparticipantsandquicklyeliminated.
Important Economic Indicators for the
United Kingdom
AllofthefollowingindicatorsareimportantfortheUnitedKingdom.How-
ever, since the United Kingdom is primarily a service-oriented economy,
it is particularly important to pay attention to numbers from the service
sector.
Employment Situation A monthly survey is conducted by the Of-
fice of National Statistics. The objectives of the survey are to divide the
working-agepopulationintothreeseparateclassifications—employed,un-
employed, and not in the labor force—and to provide descriptive and ex-
planatorydataoneachofthesecategories.Datafromthesurveyprovides
marketparticipantswithinformationonmajorlabormarkettrendssuchas

P1:JYS
c12 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 17:48 Printer:Yettocome
240 DAYTRADINGANDSWINGTRADINGTHECURRENCYMARKET
shiftsinemploymentacrossindustrialsectors,hoursworked,laborforce
participation,andunemploymentrates.Thetimelinessofthesurveymakes
itacloselywatchedstatisticbythecurrencymarketsasitisagoodbarom-
eterofthestrengthoftheU.K.economy.
Retail Price Index The RPI is a measure of the change in prices of a
basketofconsumergoods.Themarkets,however,focusontheunderlying
RPI or RPI-X, which excludes mortgage interest payments. The RPI-X is
closelywatchedastheTreasurysetsinflationtargetsfortheBOE,currently
definedas2.5percentannualgrowthinRPI-X.
Gross Domestic Product AquarterlyreportisconductedbytheBu-
reauofStatistics.GDPisameasureofthetotalproductionandconsump-
tion of goods and services in the United Kingdom. GDP is measured by
adding expenditures by households, businesses, government, and net for-
eignpurchases.TheGDPpricedeflatorisusedtoconvertoutputmeasured
atcurrentpricesintoconstant-dollarGDP.Thisdataisusedtogaugewhere
inthebusinesscycletheUnitedKingdomfindsitself.Fastgrowthoftenis
perceivedasinflationarywhilelow(ornegative)growthindicatesareces-
sionaryorweakeconomy.
IndustrialProduction Theindustrialproduction(IP)indexmeasures
the change in output in U.K. manufacturing, mining and quarrying, and
electricity, gas, and water supply. Output refers to the physical quantity
ofitemsproduced,unlikesalesvalue,whichcombinesquantityandprice.
The index covers the production of goods and power for domestic sales
intheUnitedKingdomandforexport.BecauseIPisresponsibleforclose
toaquarterofgrossdomesticproduct,IPiswidelywatchedasitprovides
goodinsightintothecurrentstateoftheeconomy.
Purchasing Managers Index Thepurchasingmanagersindex(PMI)
is a monthly survey conducted by the Chartered Institute of Purchasing
and Supply. The index is based on a weighted average of seasonally ad-
justedmeasuresofoutput,neworders,inventory,andemployment.Index
valuesabove50indicateanexpandingeconomy,whilevaluesbelow50are
indicativeofcontraction.
U.K. Housing Starts Housing starts measure the number of resi-
dential building construction projects that have begun during any
particular month. This is important data for the United Kingdom as the
housing market is the primary industry that is sustaining the economy’s
performance.

P1:JYS
c12 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 17:48 Printer:Yettocome
ProfilesandUniqueCharacteristicsofMajorCurrencyPairs 241
CURRENCY PROFILE: SWISS
FRANC (CHF)
Broad Economic Overview
Switzerland is the nineteenth largest economy in the world, with a GDP
valued at over US$255 billion in 2006. Although the economy is relatively
small,itisoneofthewealthiestintheworldonaGDPpercapitabasis.It
is prosperous and technologically advanced with stability that rivals that
ofmanylargereconomies. Thecountry’sprosperitystemsprimarilyfrom
technological expertise in manufacturing, tourism, and banking. More
specifically, Switzerland is known for its chemicals and pharmaceuticals
industries,machinery,precisioninstruments,watches,andafinancialsys-
tem historically known for protecting the confidentiality of its investors.
This coupled with the country’s lengthy history of political neutrality has
created a safe haven reputation for the country and its currency. As a
result, Switzerland is the world’s largest destination for offshore capital.
The country holds over US$2 trillion in offshore assets and is estimated
toattractmorethan35percentoftheworld’sprivatewealthmanagement
business. This has created a large and highly advanced banking and
insurance industry that employs over 50 percent of the population and
comprisesmorethan70percentoftotalGDP.SinceSwitzerland’sfinancial
industrythrivesonitssafehavenstatusandrenownedconfidentiality,cap-
ital flows tend to drive the economy during times of global risk aversion,
while trade flows drive the economy during a risk-seeking environment.
Therefore trade flows are important, with nearly two-thirds of all trade
conductedwithEurope.Switzerland’smostimportanttradingpartnersare:
LeadingExportMarkets
1. Germany
2. UnitedStates
3. Italy
4. France
5. UnitedKingdom
6. Japan
LeadingImportSources
1. Germany
2. Italy
3. France

P1:JYS
c12 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 17:48 Printer:Yettocome
242 DAYTRADINGANDSWINGTRADINGTHECURRENCYMARKET
4. Netherlands
5. UnitedStates
6. UnitedKingdom
Inrecentyears,merchandisetradeflowhasfluctuatedbetweendeficit
andsurplus.Thecurrentaccount,ontheotherhand,hasreflectedasurplus
since1966.In2006,thecurrentaccountsurplusreachedahighat14.5per-
cent of GDP. This is the highest current account surplus among all of the
industrializedcountries(asidefromNorway,Singapore,andHongKong).
Mostofthesurpluscanbeattributedtothelargeamountofforeigndirect
investmentintothecountryinsearchofsafetyofcapital,despitethelow
yieldsofferedbySwitzerland.
Monetary and Fiscal Policy Makers—Swiss
National Bank
The Swiss National Bank (SNB) is the central bank of Switzerland. It is
acompletelyindependentcentralbankwithathree-personcommitteere-
sponsible for determining monetary policy. This committee consists of a
chairman,avicechairman,andoneothermemberwhoconstitutetheGov-
erningBoardoftheSNB.Duetothesmallsizeofthecommittee,alldeci-
sions are based on a consensus vote. The board reviews monetary policy
atleastonceaquarter,butdecisionsonmonetarypolicycanbemadeand
announcedatanypointintime.Unlikemostothercentralbanks,theSNB
doesnotsetoneofficialinterestratetarget,butinsteadsetsatargetrange
forthethree-monthSwissLIBORrate.
Central Bank’s Goals In December 1999, the SNB shifted from fo-
cusing on monetary targets (M3) to an inflation target of less than 2 per-
cent inflation per year. This measure is taken based on the national con-
sumerpriceindex.Monetarytargetsstillremainimportantindicatorsand
are closely watched by the central bank, because they provide informa-
tiononthelong-terminflation.Thisnewinflationfocusalsoincreasesthe
central bank’s transparency. The bank has clearly stated that “should in-
flationexceed2percentinthemediumterm,theSNBwilltendtotighten
its monetary stance.” If there is a danger of deflation, the National Bank
would loosen monetary policy. The SNB also closely monitors exchange
rates,asexcessivestrengthintheSwissfranccancauseinflationarycon-
ditions. This is especially true in environments of global risk aversion, as
capitalflowsintoSwitzerlandincreasesignificantlyduringthosetimes.As
a result, the SNB typically favors a weak franc, and is not hesitant to use
intervention as a liquidity tool. SNB officials intervene in the franc using

P1:JYS
c12 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 17:48 Printer:Yettocome
ProfilesandUniqueCharacteristicsofMajorCurrencyPairs 243
avarietyofmethodsincludingverbalremarksonliquidity,moneysupply,
andthecurrency.
Central Bank’s Tools The most commonly used tools by the SNB to
implementmonetarypolicyinclude:
TargetInterestRateRange The SNB implements monetary policy
by setting a target range for their three-month interest rate (the Swiss
LIBOR rate). This range typically has a 100-basis-point spread, and is re-
vised at least once every quarter. This rate is used as the target because
it is the most important money market rate for Swiss franc investments.
Changestothistargetareaccompaniedwithaclearexplanationinregard
tothechangesintheeconomicenvironment.
Open Market Operations Repo transactions are the SNB’s major
monetarypolicyinstrument.Arepotransactioninvolvesacashtaker(bor-
rower)sellingsecuritiestoacashprovider(lender),whileagreeingtore-
purchasethesecuritiesofthesametypeandquantityatalaterdate.This
structure is similar to a secured loan, whereby the cash taker must pay
thecashproviderinterest.Theserepotransactionstendtohaveveryshort
maturitiesrangingfromonedaytoafewweeks.TheSNBusestheserepo
transactions to manipulate undesirable moves in the three-month LIBOR
rate.Topreventincreasesinthethree-monthLIBORrateabovetheSNB’s
target, the bank would supply the commercial banks with additional liq-
uiditythroughrepotransactionsatlowerreporates,andinessencecreate
additionalliquidity.Conversely,theSNBcanreduceliquidityorinducein-
creasesinthethree-monthLIBORratebyincreasingreporates.
The SNB publishes a Quarterly Bulletin with a detailed assessment
of the current state of the economy and a review of monetary policy. A
Monthly Bulletinisalsopublishedcontainingashortreviewofeconomic
developments.Thesereportsareimportanttowatch,astheymaycontain
information on changes in the SNB’s assessment of the current domestic
situation.
Important Characteristics of the Swiss Franc
(cid:1)
Safehavenstatus.
ThisisperhapsthemostuniquecharacteristicoftheSwissfranc.
Switzerland’ssafehavenstatusiscontinuallystressedbecausethisand
the secrecy of the banking system are the key advantages of Switzer-
land. The Swiss francmoves primarilyon external events rather than
domestic economic conditions. That is, as mentioned earlier, due to
its political neutrality, the franc is considered the world’s premier

P1:JYS
c12 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 17:48 Printer:Yettocome
244 DAYTRADINGANDSWINGTRADINGTHECURRENCYMARKET
safe haven currency. Therefore, in times of global instability and/or
uncertainty, investors tend to be more concerned with capital reten-
tionthanappreciation.Atsuchtimes,fundswillflowintoSwitzerland,
whichwouldcausetheSwissfranctoappreciateregardlessofwhether
growthconditionsarefavorable.
(cid:1)
Swissfranciscloselycorrelatedwithgold.
Switzerland is the world’s fourth largest official holder of gold.
The Swiss constitution used to have a mandate requiring the cur-
rency to be backed 40 percent with gold reserves. Since then, de-
spitetheremovalofthemandate,thelinkbetweengoldandtheSwiss
franc has remained ingrained in the minds of Swiss investors. As a
result, the Swiss franc has close to an 80 percent positive correla-
tion with gold. If the gold price appreciates, the Swiss franc has a
high likelihood of appreciating as well. In addition, since gold is also
viewed as the ultimate safe haven form of money, both gold and the
Swissfrancbenefitduringperiodsofglobaleconomicandgeopolitical
uncertainty.
(cid:1)
Carrytradeseffects.
With one of the lowest interest rates in the industrialized world
overthepastfewyears,theSwissfrancisoneofthemostpopularcur-
renciesusedbytradersincarrytrades.Asmentionedthroughoutthis
book, the popularity of carry trades has increased significantly over
recent years, as investors are actively seeking high-yielding assets. A
carry trade involves buying or lending a currency with a high inter-
est rate and selling or borrowing a currency with a low interest rate.
With CHF having one of the lowest interest rates of all industrialized
countries,itisoneoftheprimarycurrenciessoldorborrowedincarry
trades. This results in the need to sell CHF against a higher-yielding
currency. Carry trades are typically done in cross-currencies such as
GBP/CHF or AUD/CHF, but these trades will impact both EUR/CHF
andUSD/CHF.Unwindingofcarrytradeswillinvolvetheneedforin-
vestorstopurchaseCHF.
(cid:1)
InterestratedifferentialsbetweenEuroSwissfuturesandfor-
eigninterestratefuturesarecloselyfollowed.
Interest rate differentials between three-month Euro Swiss fu-
turesandEurodollarfuturesarewidelywatchedbyprofessionalSwiss
traders. These differentials are good indicators of potential money
flows as they indicate how much premium yield U.S. fixed income
assetsareofferingoverSwissfixedincomeassets,orviceversa.This
differential provides traders with indications of potential currency
movements, as investors are always looking for assets with the high-
estyields.Thisisparticularlyimportanttocarrytraderswhoenterand

P1:JYS
c12 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 17:48 Printer:Yettocome
ProfilesandUniqueCharacteristicsofMajorCurrencyPairs 245
exittheirpositionsbasedonthepositiveinterestratedifferentialsbe-
tweenglobalfixedincomeassets.
(cid:1)
Potentialchangesinbankingregulations.
Over the past few years members of the European Union have
been exerting significant pressure on Switzerland to relax the confi-
dentiality of its banking system and to increase transparency of cus-
tomers’ accounts. The EU is pressing this issue because of its active
measures to prosecute EU tax evaders. This should be a concern for
many years to come. However, this is a difficult decision for Switzer-
landtomakebecausetheconfidentialityofcustomers’accountsrepre-
sents the core strength of its banking system. The EU has threatened
to impose severe sanctions on Switzerland if it does not comply with
theproposedmeasures.Bothpoliticalentitiesarecurrentlyworkingto
negotiateanequitableresolution.Anynewsortalkofchangingbank-
ingregulationswillimpactbothSwitzerland’seconomyandtheSwiss
franc.
(cid:1)
Mergerandacquisitionactivity.
Switzerland’s primary industry is banking and finance. In this in-
dustry,mergerandacquisition(M&A)activitiesareverycommon,es-
peciallyasconsolidationcontinuesintheoverallindustry.Asaresult,
theseM&AactivitiescanhavesignificantimpactontheSwissfranc.If
foreignfirmspurchaseSwissbanksorinsurancecompanies,theywill
needtobuySwissfrancsandinturnselltheirlocalcurrencies.IfSwiss
banks purchase foreign firms, on the other hand, they would need to
sell Swiss francs and buy the foreign currencies. Either way, it is im-
portantforSwissfranctraderstofrequentlywatchfornoticesonM&A
activityinvolvingSwissfirms.
(cid:1)
Tradingbehavior,cross-currencycharacteristics.
The EUR/CHF is the most commonly traded currency for traders
who want to participate in CHF movements. (See Figure 12.4.) The
USD/CHF is less frequently traded because of its higher illiquidity
and volatility. However, day traders may tend to favor USD/CHF
over EUR/CHF because of its volatile movements. In actuality, the
USD/CHF is only a synthetic currency derived from EUR/USD and
EUR/CHF. Market makers or professional traders tend to use those
pairs as leading indicators for trading USD/CHF or to price the cur-
rent USD/CHF level when the currency pair is illiquid. Theoretically,
the USD/CHF rate should be exactly equal to EUR/CHF divided by
EUR/USD. Only during times of severe global risk aversion, such as
the Iraq War or September 11, will USD/CHF develop a market of its
own.Anysmalldifferencesintheseratesarequicklyexploitedbymar-
ketparticipants.

P1:JYS
c12 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 17:48 Printer:Yettocome
246 DAYTRADINGANDSWINGTRADINGTHECURRENCYMARKET
FIGURE 12.4 USD/CHFFive-YearChart
(Source:www.eSignal.com)
Important Economic Indicators for Switzerland
KoF (Konjunkturforschungsstelle der eth, Zurich) Leading
Indicators The KoF leading indicators report is released by the Swiss
Institute for Business Cycle Research. This index is generally used to
gaugethefuturehealthoftheSwisseconomy.Itcontainssixcomponents:
(1)changeinmanufacturers’orders,(2)expectedpurchaseplansofmanu-
facturersoverthenextthreemonths,(3)judgmentofstocksinwholesale
business,(4)consumerperceptionoftheirfinancialconditions,(5)backlog
intheconstructionsector,and(6)ordersbacklogformanufacturers.
Consumer Price Index The consumer price index is calculated
monthly on the basis of retail prices paid in Switzerland. In accordance
with prevalent international practice, the commodities covered are dis-
tinguished according to the consumption concept, which includes in the
calculation of the index those goods and services that are part of the pri-
vateconsumptionaggregateaccordingtotheNationalAccounts.Thebas-
ketofgoodsdoesnotincludeso-calledtransferexpendituresuchasdirect
taxation, social insurance contributions, and health insurance premiums.
Theindexisakeymeasureofinflation.
Gross Domestic Product GDP is a measure of the total production
and consumption of goods and services in Switzerland. GDP is measured
by adding expenditures by households, businesses, government, and net
foreignpurchases.TheGDPpricedeflatorisusedtoconvertoutputmea-
suredatcurrentpricesintoconstant-dollarGDP.Thisdataisusedtogauge

P1:JYS
c12 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 17:48 Printer:Yettocome
ProfilesandUniqueCharacteristicsofMajorCurrencyPairs 247
where in the business cycle Switzerland finds itself. Fast growth often is
perceivedasinflationarywhilelow(ornegative)growthindicatesareces-
sionaryorweakeconomy.
Balance of Payments Balance of payments is the collective term for
theaccountsofSwisstransactionswiththerestoftheworld.Thecurrent
accountisthebalanceoftradeplusservicesportion.Balanceofpayments
isanimportantindicatorforSwisstradersasSwitzerlandhasalwayskept
astrongcurrentaccountbalance.Anychangestothecurrentaccount,pos-
itiveornegative,couldseesubstantialflows.
Production Index (Industrial Production) The production index
isaquarterlymeasureofthechangeinthevolumeofindustrialproduction
(orphysicaloutputbyproducers).
Retail Sales Switzerland’s retail sales report is released on a monthly
basis40daysafterthereferencemonth.Thedataisanimportantindicator
ofconsumerspendinghabitsandisnotseasonallyadjusted.
CURRENCY PROFILE: JAPANESE
YEN (JPY)
Broad Economic Overview
Japan is the third largest economy in the world with GDP valued at over
US$4.2 trillion in 2006 (behind the United States and the entire Eurozone
orEMU).Itisthesecondlargestsingleeconomy.Thecountryisalsoone
oftheworld’slargestexportersandisresponsibleforover$500billionin
exportsperyear.Manufacturingandexportsofproductssuchaselectron-
icsandcarsarethesignaturedriversoftheeconomy,accountingfornearly
20 percent of GDP. This has resulted in a consistent trade surplus, which
createsaninherentdemandfortheJapaneseyen,despiteseverestructural
deficiencies. Aside from being an exporter, Japan is also a large importer
of raw materials for the production of goods. The primary trade partners
for Japan in terms of both imports and exports are the United States and
China.China’sinexpensivegoodshavehelpedthecountrycapturealarger
share of Japan’s import market. It is becoming an increasingly important
tradepartner,andhasevensurpassedtheUnitedStatestobecomeJapan’s
largestsourceofimportsin2003.
LeadingExportMarkets
1. UnitedStates
2. China

P1:JYS
c12 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 17:48 Printer:Yettocome
248 DAYTRADINGANDSWINGTRADINGTHECURRENCYMARKET
3. SouthKorea
4. Taiwan
5. HongKong
LeadingImportSources
1. China
2. UnitedStates
3. SouthKorea
4. Australia
5. Taiwan
Japan’s Bubble Burst
Understanding the Japanese economy first involves understanding what
ledtotheJapanesebubbleanditssubsequentburst.
In the 1980s, Japan’s financial market was one of the most attractive
markets for international investors seeking investment opportunities in
Asia.Ithadthemostdevelopedcapitalmarketsintheregion,anditsbank-
ingsystemwasconsideredtobeoneofthestrongestintheworld.Atthe
time,thecountrywasexperiencingabove-trendeconomicgrowthandnear
zero inflation. This resulted in rapid growth expectations, boosted asset
prices, and rapid credit expansion, leading to the development of an as-
setbubble.Between1990and1997,theassetbubblecollapsed,inducinga
US$10trillionfallinassetprices,withthefallinrealestatepricesaccount-
ingfornearly65percentofthetotaldecline,whichisworthtwoyearsof
nationaloutput.ThisfallinassetpricessparkedabankingcrisisinJapan.
It began in the early 1990s and then developed into a full-blown systemic
crisisin1997followingthefailureofanumberofhigh-profilefinancialinsti-
tutions.Manyofthesebanksandfinancialinstitutionshadextendedloans
tothebuildersandrealestatedevelopersattheheightoftheassetbubble
inthe1980s,withthelandasthecollateral.Anumberofthesedevelopers
defaultedaftertheassetbubblecollapse,leavingthecountry’sbankssad-
dled with bad debt and collateral worth sometimes 60 to 80 percent less
than when the loans were taken out. Due to the large size of these bank-
inginstitutionsandtheirroleincorporatefunding,thecrisishadprofound
effectsonboththeJapaneseeconomyandtheglobaleconomy.Enormous
baddebts,fallingstockprices,andacollapsingrealestatesectorhavecrip-
pledtheJapaneseeconomyforalmosttwodecades.
Inadditiontothebankingcrisis,Japanalsohasthehighestdebtlevel
of all of the industrialized countries, at over 140 percent of GDP. As a
result of the country’s deteriorating fiscal position and rising public debt,
the country experienced over 10 years of stagnation. With this high debt

P1:JYS
c12 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 17:48 Printer:Yettocome
ProfilesandUniqueCharacteristicsofMajorCurrencyPairs 249
burden, Japan still stands at risk of a liquidity crisis. The banking sector
has become highly dependent on a government bailout. As a result, the
Japaneseyenisverysensitivetopoliticaldevelopmentsandtoanywords
in speeches by government officials that may indicate potential changes
in monetary and fiscal policy, attempted bailout proposals, and any other
rumors.
Monetary and Fiscal Policy Makers—Bank
of Japan
TheBankofJapan(BOJ)isthekeymonetarypolicymakingbodyinJapan.
In1998,theJapanesegovernmentpassedlawsgivingtheBOJoperational
independence from the Ministry of Finance (MOF) and complete control
overmonetarypolicy.However,despitethegovernment’sattemptstode-
centralizedecisionmaking,theMOFstillremainsinchargeofforeignex-
change policy. The BOJ is responsible for executing all official Japanese
foreign exchange transactions at the direction of the MOF. The Bank of
Japan’s Policy Board consists of the BOJ governor, two deputy gover-
nors, and six other members. Monetary policy meetings are held twice a
month with briefings and press releases provided immediately. The BOJ
alsopublishesaMonthlyReportissuedbythePolicyBoardandaMonthly
Economic Report. These reports are important to watch for changes in
BOJ sentiment and signals of new monetary or fiscal policy measures,
as the government is constantly trying to develop initiatives to stimulate
growth.
The MOF and the BOJ are very important institutions that both have
theabilitytoimpactcurrencymovements.SincetheMOFisthedirectorof
foreignexchangeinterventions,itisimportanttowatchandkeepabreast
of the comments made from MOF officials. Being an export-driven econ-
omy, the government tends to favor a weaker Japanese yen. Therefore, if
the Japanese yen appreciates significantly or too rapidly against the dol-
lar, members of the BOJ and MOF will become increasingly vocal about
theirconcernsordisapprovalinregardtothecurrentlevelormovements
in the Japanese yen. These comments do tend to be market movers, but
it is important to note that if government officials flood the market with
comments and no action, the market would start to become immune to
these comments. However, the MOF and BOJ do have a lengthy history
of interventions in the currency markets to actively manipulate the JPY
inJapan’sbestinterests;therefore,theircommentscannotbecompletely
disregarded.ThemostpopulartoolthattheBOJusestocontrolmonetary
policyisopenmarketoperations.
Open Market Operations Theseactivitiesarefocusedoncontrolling
theuncollateralizedovernightcallrate.TheBankofJapanhasmaintained

P1:JYS
c12 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 17:48 Printer:Yettocome
250 DAYTRADINGANDSWINGTRADINGTHECURRENCYMARKET
azerointerestratepolicyforsometimenow,whichmeansthattheBank
of Japan cannot further decrease this rate to stimulate growth, consump-
tion, or liquidity. Therefore in order to maintain zero interest rates, the
BOJ has to manipulate liquidity through open market operations, target-
ing zero interest on the overnight call rate. It manipulates liquidity by the
outright buying or selling of bills, repos, or Japanese government bonds.
Arepotransactioninvolvesacashtaker(borrower)sellingsecuritiestoa
cashprovider(lender),whileagreeingtorepurchasesecuritiesofthesame
typeandquantityatalaterdate.Thisstructureissimilartoasecuredloan,
whereby the cash taker must pay the cash provider interest. These repo
transactionstendtohaveveryshortmaturitiesrangingfromonedaytoa
fewweeks.
In terms of fiscal policy, the Bank of Japan continues to consider a
numberofmethodstodealwithitsnonperformingloans.Thisincludesin-
flationtargeting,nationalizingaportionofprivatebanks,andrepackaging
thebanks’baddebtandsellingitatadiscount.Nopolicieshavebeende-
cidedupon,butthegovernmentisaggressivelyconsideringalloftheseand
otheralternatives.
Important Characteristics of the Japanese Yen
(cid:1)
ProxyforAsianstrength/weakness.
JapantendstobeseenasaproxyforbroadAsianstrengthbecause
thecountryhasthelargestGDPinAsia.Withthemostdevelopedcap-
italmarkets,Japanwasoncetheprimarydestinationforallinvestors
who wanted access into the region. Japan also conducts a significant
amount of trade with its Asian partners. As a result, economic prob-
lems or political instability in Japan tend to spill over into the other
Asiancountries.However,thisspilloverisnotone-sided.Economicor
politicalproblemsinotherAsianeconomiescanalsohavedramaticim-
pactsontheJapaneseeconomyandhencemovementsintheJapanese
yen.Forexample,NorthKoreanpoliticalinstabilityposesagreatrisk
toJapanandtheJapanese yensinceoftheG-7nationsJapanhasthe
strongesttiestoNorthKorea.
(cid:1)
BankofJapaninterventionpractices.
TheBOJandMOFareveryactiveparticipantsintheFXmarkets.
Thatis,theyhavealengthyhistoryofenteringtheFXmarketsifthey
aredissatisfiedwiththecurrentJPYlevel.AsJapanisaverypolitical
economy,withclosetiesbetweengovernmentofficialsandprincipals
of large private institutions, the MOF has a very narrow segment in
mind when it decides to depreciate a strong JPY. Since the BOJ is
such an active participant, it is very much in tune with the market’s
movements and other participants. Periodically the BOJ receives

P1:JYS
c12 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 17:48 Printer:Yettocome
ProfilesandUniqueCharacteristicsofMajorCurrencyPairs 251
information on large hedge fund positions from banks and is likely
to intervene when speculators are on the other side of the market,
allowing them to get the most bang for the buck. There are typically
threemainfactorsbehindBOJandMOFintervention:
1. Amount of appreciation/depreciation in JPY. Intervention has
historically occurred when the yen moves by seven or more yen
inlessthansixweeks.UsingtheUSD/JPYasabarometer,7yen
would be equivalent to 700 pips, which would represent a move
from117.00to125.00.(SeeFigure12.5.)
2. Current USD/JPY rate. Historically, only 11 percent of all BOJ
interventions to counter a strong JPY have occurred above the
115level.
3. Speculative positions. In order to maximize the impact of inter-
vention, the BOJ and MOF will intervene when market partici-
pantsholdpositionsintheoppositedirection.Traderscanfinda
gaugeforthepositionsofmarketparticipantsbyviewingtheIn-
ternationalMonetaryMarket(IMM)positionsfromtheCFTCweb
siteatwww.cftc.gov.
(cid:1)
JPYmovementsaresensitivetotime.
JPY crosses can become very active toward the end of the
Japanese fiscal year (March 31), as exporters repatriate their dollar-
denominatedassets.ThisisparticularlyimportantforJapanesebanks
because they need to rebuild their balance sheets to meet Finan-
cial Services Authority (FSA) guidelines, which require the banks to
FIGURE 12.5 USD/JPYFive-YearChart
(Source:www.eSignal.com)

P1:JYS
c12 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 17:48 Printer:Yettocome
252 DAYTRADINGANDSWINGTRADINGTHECURRENCYMARKET
mark to market their security holdings. In anticipation of the need
forrepatriation-relatedpurchasesoftheJapaneseyen,speculatorsfre-
quentlyalsobidtheyenhigherinanattempttotakeadvantageofthis
increased inflow. As a result, following fiscal year-end, the Japanese
yentendstohaveabiastowarddepreciationasspeculatorsclosetheir
positions.
Asidefromthefiscalyear-end,timeisalsoafactoronaday-to-day
basis.UnliketradersinLondonorNewYorkwhotypicallyhavelunch
at their trading desk, Japanese traders tend to take hourlong lunches
between10and11p.m.EST,leavingonlyajuniortraderintheoffice.
Therefore,theJapaneselunchtimecanbevolatile,asthemarketgets
very illiquid. Aside from that time frame, the JPY tends to move in a
fairlyorderlywayduringJapaneseandLondonhours,unlessbreaking
announcementsorgovernmentofficialcommentsaremadeorsurpris-
ing economic data is released. During U.S. hours, however, the JPY
tendstohavehighervolatility,asU.S.tradersareactivelytakingboth
USDandJPYpositions.
(cid:1)
Bankingstocksarewidelywatched.
Since the crux of Japan’s economic crisis stems from the non-
performing loan (NPL) problems of the Japanese banks, banking
sector stocks are closely watched by FX market participants. Any
threat of default by these banks, disappointing earnings, or further
reportsofsignificantNPLscanindicateevendeeperproblemsforthe
economy. Therefore, bank stock movements can lead movements in
theJapaneseyen.
(cid:1)
Carrytradeeffects.
The popularity of carry trades has increased in recent years, as
investors are actively seeking high-yielding assets. With the Japanese
yenhavingthelowestinterestrateofallindustrializedcountries,itis
theprimarycurrencysoldorborrowedincarrytrades.Themostpopu-
larcarrytradecurrenciesincludedGBP/JPY,AUD/JPY,NZD/JPY,and
evenUSD/JPY.CarrytraderswouldgoshorttheJapaneseyenagainst
the higher-yielding currencies. Therefore reversal of carry trades as
a result of spread narrowing would actually be beneficial for the
Japanese yen, as the reversal process would involve purchasing the
yenagainsttheothercurrencies.
Important Economic Indicators for Japan
AllofthefollowingeconomicindicatorsareimportantforJapan.However,
since Japan is a manufacturing-oriented economy, it is important to pay
particularattentiontonumbersfromthemanufacturingsector.

P1:JYS
c12 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 17:48 Printer:Yettocome
ProfilesandUniqueCharacteristicsofMajorCurrencyPairs 253
GrossDomesticProduct Grossdomesticproductisabroadmeasure
ofthetotalproduction and consumption ofgoods and services measured
over quarterly and yearly periods in Japan. GDP is measured by adding
totalexpendituresbyhouseholds,businesses,government,andnetforeign
purchases. The GDP price deflator is used to convert output measured at
currentpricesintoconstant-dollarGDP.Preliminaryreportsarethemost
significantforFXmarketparticipants.
Tankan Survey The Tankan is a short-term economic survey of
Japanese enterprises published four times a year. The survey includes
more than 9,000 enterprises, which are divided into four major groups:
large,small,andmedium-sizedaswellasprincipalenterprises.Thesurvey
givesanoverallimpressionofthebusinessclimateinJapanandiswidely
watchedandanticipatedbyforeignexchangemarketparticipants.
Balance of Payments Balance of payments information gives in-
vestors insight into Japan’s international economic transactions that in-
clude goods, services, investment income, and capital flows. The current
account side of BOJ is most often used as a good gauge of international
trade.Figuresarereleasedbothmonthlyandsemiannually.
Employment Employment figures are reported on a monthly basis by
the Management and Coordination Agency of Japan. The employment re-
lease is a measure of the number of jobs and unemployment rate for the
countryasawhole.Thedataisobtainedthroughastatisticalsurveyofthe
current labor force. This release is a closely watched economic indicator
becauseofitstimelinessanditsimportanceasaleadingindicatorofeco-
nomicactivity.
IndustrialProduction Theindustrialproduction(IP)indexmeasures
trends in the output of Japanese manufacturing, mining, and utilities
companies. Output refers to the total quantity of items produced. The
index covers theproduction ofgoods fordomestic sales inJapan and for
export.Itexcludesproductionintheagriculture,construction,transporta-
tion, communication, trade, finance, and service industries; government
output; and imports. The IP index is then developed by weighting each
component according to its relative importance during the base period.
Investors feel IP and inventory accumulation have strong correlations
with total output and can give good insight into the current state of the
economy.

P1:JYS
c12 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 17:48 Printer:Yettocome
254 DAYTRADINGANDSWINGTRADINGTHECURRENCYMARKET
CURRENCY PROFILE: AUSTRALIAN
DOLLAR (AUD)
Broad Economic Overview
AustraliaisthefifthlargestcountryintermsofGDPintheAsia-Pacificre-
gion.ItsgrossdomesticproductwasapproximatelyUS$674billionin2006.
Althoughitseconomyisrelativelysmall,onapercapitabasisitiscompa-
rable to many industrialized Western European countries. Australia has a
service-oriented economy with close to 79 percent of GDP coming from
industries such as finance, property, and business services. However, the
country has a trade deficit, with manufacturing dominating the country’s
exportingactivities.Ruralandmineralexportsaccountforover60percent
of all manufacturing exports. As a result, the economy is highly sensitive
to changes in commodity prices. The breakdowns of Australia’s most im-
portanttradingpartnersareimportantbecausedownturnsorrapidgrowth
in Australia’s largest trade partners will impact demand for the country’s
importsandexports.
LargestExportMarkets
1. Japan
2. EuropeanUnion
3. China
4. ASEAN(AssociationofSoutheastAsianNations)
5. RepublicofKorea
6. UnitedStates
LargestImportSources
1. EuropeanUnion
2. ASEAN(AssociationofSoutheastAsianNations)
3. China
4. UnitedStates
Japan and the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) are
the leading importers of Australian goods. The ASEAN includes Brunei,
Cambodia, Indonesia, Laos, Malaysia, Myanmar, Philippines, Singapore,
Thailand, and Vietnam. Therefore, it may be logical to assume that the
Australianeconomyishighlysensitivetotheperformanceofthecountries
intheAsian-Pacificregion.However,duringtheAsiancrisis,Australiagrew

P1:JYS
c12 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 17:48 Printer:Yettocome
ProfilesandUniqueCharacteristicsofMajorCurrencyPairs 255
at an average rate of 4.7 percent per year from 1997 to 1999 despite the
factthatAsiaisthecentraldestinationforthebulkofAustralianexports.
Australia was able tomaintain strength as aresult of the country’s sound
foundationofstrongdomesticconsumption.Asaresult,theeconomyhas
beenabletowithstandpastcrises.Consumptionhasbeenonasteadyrise
sincethe1980s.Thereforeconsumerconsumptionisanimportantindica-
tortowatchduringtimesofglobaleconomicslowdownforsignalsofthe
slowdown’sspillovereffectsontoAustralia’sdomesticconsumption.
Monetary and Fiscal Policy Makers—Reserve
Bank of Australia
TheReserveBankofAustralia(RBA)isthecentralbankofAustralia.The
monetary policy committee within the central bank consists of the gov-
ernor (chairman), the deputy governor (vice chairman), secretary to the
treasurer, and six independent members appointed by the government.
Changesonmonetarypolicyarebasedonconsensuswithinthecommittee.
Central Bank’s Goals The RBA’s charter states that the mandate
of the Reserve Bank Board is to focus monetary and banking policy on
ensuring:
(cid:1)
ThestabilityofthecurrencyofAustralia.
(cid:1)
ThemaintenanceoffullemploymentinAustralia.
(cid:1)
TheeconomicprosperityandwelfareofthepeopleofAustralia.
Inordertoachievetheseobjectives,thegovernmenthassetaninfor-
mal consumer price inflation target of 2 to 3 percent per year. The RBA
believesthatthekeytolong-termsustainablegrowthintheeconomyisto
control inflation, which would preserve the value of money. In addition,
an inflation target provides a discipline for monetary policy making and
guidelinesforprivatesectorinflationexpectations.Thisalsoincreasesthe
transparencyofthebank’sactivities.Shouldinflationorinflationexpecta-
tions exceed the 2 to 3 percent target, traders should know that it would
raise red flags at the RBA and prompt the central bank to favor a tighter
monetarypolicy—inotherwords,furtherratehikes.
Monetarypolicydecisionsinvolvesettingtheinterestrateonovernight
loans in the money market. Other interest rates in the economy are influ-
encedbythisinterestratetovaryingdegrees,sothatthebehaviorofbor-
rowersandlendersinthefinancialmarketsisaffectedbymonetarypolicy
(though not only by monetary policy). Through these channels, monetary
policyaffectstheeconomyinpursuitofthegoalsoutlinedearlier.

P1:JYS
c12 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 17:48 Printer:Yettocome
256 DAYTRADINGANDSWINGTRADINGTHECURRENCYMARKET
Cash Rate This is the RBA’s target rate for open market operations.
Thecashrateistheratechargedonovernightloansbetweenfinancialin-
termediaries. As a result, the cash rate should have a close relationship
withtheprevailingmoneymarketinterestrates.Changesinmonetarypol-
icy directly impact the interest rate structure of the financial system, and
also impact sentiment in a currency. The chart in Figure 12.6 graphs the
AUD/USD against the interest rate differential between Australia and the
United States. Broadly speaking, there is a clear positive correlation be-
tweentheinterestratedifferentialandthemovementinthecurrency.That
is, between 1990 and 1994 Australia aggressively cut interest rates from
a high of 17 percent to 4.75 percent, leading to a sharp decline in the
AUD/USD. A different scenario was seen between 2000 and 2004. At the
time,Australia was raisinginterest rates whiletheUnited States was cut-
tinginterestrates.Thisdivergenceinmonetarypoliciesledtoaverystrong
rallyintheAUD/USDoverthenextfiveyears.(SeeFigure12.7.)
MaintainingtheCashRate:OpenMarketOperations Thefocus
of daily open market operations is to keep the cash rate close to the tar-
getbymanagingmoneymarketliquidityprovidedtocommercialbanks.If
the Reserve Bank wishes to decrease the cash rate, it would increase the
AUD/USD vs. Interest Rate Defferential
1.00 3.00
2.50
2.00
1.50
1.00
laitnereffiD
etaR
.tnI
0.50
AUD/USD
Date
DSU/DUA
0.95
0.90
0.85
0.80
0.75
0.70
0.65
Bond Spread
0.60 0.00
1/2/2004 5/21/2004 10/8/2004 2/25/2005 7/15/2005 12/2/2005 4/21/2006 9/8/2006 1/26/2007 6/15/2007 11/2/2007 3/21/2008
FIGURE 12.6 AUD/USDandBondSpread

P1:JYS
c12 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 17:48 Printer:Yettocome
ProfilesandUniqueCharacteristicsofMajorCurrencyPairs 257
FIGURE 12.7 AUD/USDFive-YearChart
(Source:www.eSignal.com)
supplyofshort-datedrepurchaseagreementsatalowerinterestratethan
theprevailingcashrate,whichwouldinessencedecreasethecashrate.If
the Reserve Bank wishes to increase the cash rate, it would decrease the
supplyofshort-datedrepurchaseagreements,whichwouldinessencein-
creasethecashrate.Arepurchaseagreementinvolvesacashtaker(com-
mercial bank) selling securities to a cash provider (RBA), while agreeing
torepurchasesecuritiesofthesametypeandquantityatalaterdate.This
structure is similar to a secured loan, whereby the cash taker must pay
thecashproviderinterest.Theserepotransactionstendtohaveveryshort
maturitiesrangingfromonedaytoafewweeks.
Australia has had a floating exchange rate since 1983. The Reserve
Bank of Australia may undertake foreign exchange market operations
whenthemarketthreatenstobecomeexcessivelyvolatileorwhentheex-
change rate is clearly inconsistent with underlying economic fundamen-
tals. The RBA monitors a trade-weighted index as well as the cross-rate
withtheU.S.dollar.Interventionoperationsareinvariablyaimedatstabi-
lizingmarketconditionsratherthanmeetingexchangeratetargets.
Monetary Policy Meetings The RBA meets every month (except for
January)onthefirstTuesdayofthemonthtodiscusspotentialchangesin
monetary policy. Following each meeting, the RBA issues a press release
outliningjustificationsforitsmonetarypolicychanges.Itreleasesastate-
mentregardlessofwhetherinterestratesarechanged.TheRBAalsopub-
lishesamonthlyReserveBankBulletin.TheMayandNovemberissuesof

P1:JYS
c12 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 17:48 Printer:Yettocome
258 DAYTRADINGANDSWINGTRADINGTHECURRENCYMARKET
the Reserve Bank Bulletin include the semiannual statement on the Con-
ductofMonetaryPolicy.TheFebruary,May,August,andNovemberissues
contain a Quarterly Report on the Economy and Financial Markets. It is
importanttoreadthese bulletinsforsignalsonpotential monetarypolicy
changes.
Important Characteristics of the
Australian Dollar
(cid:1)
Commodity-linkedcurrency.
Historically,theAustraliandollarhashadaverystrongcorrelation
(approximately 80 percent) with commodity prices and, more specif-
ically, with gold prices. The correlation stems from the fact that Aus-
tralia is the world’s third largest gold producer, and gold represents
approximately $5 billion in exports for the nation each year. As a re-
sult, the Australian dollar benefits when commodity prices increase.
Of course, it also decreases when commodity prices decline. If com-
moditypricesarestrong,inflationaryfearsstarttoappearandtheRBA
would be inclined toincrease rates tocurb inflation. However, thisis
asensitivetopic,asgoldpricestendtoincreaseintimesofglobaleco-
nomicorpoliticaluncertainty.IftheRBAincreasesratesduringthose
conditions,itleavesAustraliamorevulnerabletospillovereffects.
(cid:1)
Carrytradeeffects.
Australiahasoneofthehighestinterestratesamongthedeveloped
countries.Withafairlyliquidcurrency,theAustraliandollarisoneof
the most popular currencies to use for carry trades. A carry trade in-
volvesbuyingorlendingacurrencywithahighinterestrateandsell-
ingorborrowingacurrencywithalowinterestrate.Thepopularityof
thecarrytradehascontributedtothe95percentriseoftheAustralian
dollaragainsttheU.S.dollarbetween2001and2007.Manyforeignin-
vestors were looking for high yields when equity investments offered
minimalreturns.However,carrytradeslastonlyaslongastheactual
yieldadvantageremains.Ifglobalcentralbanksincreasetheirinterest
ratesandthepositiveinterestratedifferentialsbetweenAustraliaand
othercountriesnarrow,theAUD/USDcouldsufferfromanexodusof
carrytraders.
(cid:1)
Droughteffects.
Since the majority of Australia’s exports are commodities, the
country’s GDP is highly sensitive to severe weather conditions that
may damage the country’s farming activities. For example, 2002 was
aparticularlydifficultyearforAustralia,becausethecountrywasex-
periencing a severe drought. The drought had taken an extreme toll
on Australia’s farming activities. This is especially important because

P1:JYS
c12 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 17:48 Printer:Yettocome
ProfilesandUniqueCharacteristicsofMajorCurrencyPairs 259
agricultureaccountsfor3percentofthecountry’sGDP.TheRBAesti-
matesthatthe“declineinfarmproductioncoulddirectlyreduceGDP
growthbyaround1percentagepoint.”Asidefromexportingactivities,
adroughtalsohasindirecteffectsonotheraspectsofAustralia’secon-
omy.Industriesthatsupplyandserviceagriculture,suchasthewhole-
saleandtransportsectors,aswellasretailoperationsinruralfarming
areasmayalsobenegativelyaffectedbyadrought.However,itisim-
portanttonotethattheAustralianeconomyhasahistoryofrecovering
stronglyafteradrought.The1982–1983droughtfirstsubtracted,then
subsequentlyadded,around1to1.5percentagepointstoGDPgrowth.
The 1991–1995 drought reduced GDP by around 0.5 to 0.75 percent-
age points in 1991–1992 and 1994–1995, but eventually boosted GDP
by0.75percentagepoints.
(cid:1)
Interestratedifferentials.
InterestratedifferentialsbetweenthecashratesofAustraliaand
the short-term interest rate yields of other industrialized countries
should also be closely watched by professional traders of the Aus-
tralian dollar. These differentials can be good indicators of potential
moneyflowsastheyindicatehowmuchpremiumyieldAustraliandol-
larshort-termfixedincomeassetsareofferingoverforeignshort-term
fixed income assets, or vice versa. This differential provides traders
withindicationsofpotentialcurrencymovements,asinvestorsareal-
wayslookingforassetswiththehighestyields.Thisisparticularlyim-
portanttocarrytraderswhoenterandexittheirpositionsbasedonthe
positiveinterestratedifferentialsbetweenglobalfixedincomeassets.
Important Economic Indicators for Australia
GrossDomesticProduct Grossdomesticproductisameasureofthe
totalproductionandconsumptionofgoodsandservicesinAustralia.GDP
is measured by adding expenditures by households, businesses, govern-
ment,andnetforeignpurchases.TheGDPpricedeflatorisusedtoconvert
output measured at current prices into constant-dollar GDP. This data is
usedtogaugewhereinthebusinesscycleAustraliafindsitself.Fastgrowth
oftenisperceivedasinflationarywhilelow(ornegative)growthindicates
arecessionaryorweakeconomy.
Consumer Price Index The consumer price index (CPI) measures
quarterly changes in the price of a basket of goods and services that
account for a high proportion of expenditure by the CPI population
group(i.e.,metropolitanhouseholds). Thisbasket coversawiderangeof
goodsandservices,includingfood,housing,education,transportation,and

P1:JYS
c12 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 17:48 Printer:Yettocome
260 DAYTRADINGANDSWINGTRADINGTHECURRENCYMARKET
health. This is the key indicator to watch as monetary policy changes are
madebasedonthisindex,whichisameasureofinflation.
Balance of Goods and Services Thisnumberisamonthlymeasure
ofAustralia’sinternationaltradeingoodsandservicesonabalanceofpay-
mentsbasis.Generalmerchandiseimportsandexportsarederivedmainly
frominternationaltradestatistics,whicharebasedonAustralianCustoms
Servicerecords.Thecurrentaccountisthebalanceoftradeplusservices.
Private Consumption This is a national accounts measure that re-
flects current expenditure by households, and producers of private non-
profit services to households. It includes purchases of durable as well as
nondurable goods. However, it excludes expenditures by persons on the
purchase of dwellings and expenditures of a capital nature by unincor-
porated enterprises. This number is important to watch, as private con-
sumptionorconsumerconsumptionisthefoundationforresilienceinthe
Australianeconomy.
Producer Price Index The producer price index (PPI) is a family of
indexes that measures average changes in selling prices received by do-
mestic producers for their output. The PPI tracks changes in prices for
nearly every goods-producing industry in the domestic economy, includ-
ingagriculture,electricityandnaturalgas,forestry,fisheries,manufactur-
ing, and mining. Foreign exchange markets tend to focus on seasonally
adjustedfinishedgoodsPPIandhowtheindexhasreactedonamonth-on-
month, quarter-on-quarter, half-year-on-half-year, and year-on-year basis.
Australia’sPPIdataisreleasedonaquarterlybasis.
CURRENCY PROFILE: NEW ZEALAND
DOLLAR (NZD)
Broad Economic Overview
New Zealand is a very small economy with GDP valued at approximately
US$107billionin2006.Infact,atthetimeofpublicationthecountry’spop-
ulation isequivalent toless than half of the population of New YorkCity.
It was once one of the most regulated countries within the Organization
for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD), but over the past
two decades the country has been moving toward a more open, modern,
and stable economy. With the passing of the Fiscal Responsibility Act of
1994, the country is shifting from an agricultural farming community to
one that seeks to become a leading knowledge-based economy with high
skills, high employment, and high value-added production. This Act sets

P1:JYS
c12 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 17:48 Printer:Yettocome
ProfilesandUniqueCharacteristicsofMajorCurrencyPairs 261
legalstandardsthatholdthegovernmentformallyresponsibletothepub-
lic for its fiscal performance. It also sets the framework for the country’s
macroeconomic policies. The following are the principles outlined under
theFiscalResponsibilityAct:
(cid:1)
Debtmustbereducedtoprudentlevelsbyachievingsurplusesonthe
operatingbudgeteveryyearuntilsuchalevelisreached.
(cid:1)
Debtmustbereducedtoprudentlevelsandthegovernmentmusten-
surethatexpenditureislowerthanrevenue.
(cid:1)
SufficientlevelsofCrownnetworthmustbeachievedandmaintained
toguardagainstadversefutureevents.
(cid:1)
Reasonabletaxationpoliciesmustbefollowed.
(cid:1)
Fiscalrisksfacingthegovernmentmustbeprudentlymanaged.
New Zealand also has highly developed manufacturing and services
sectors, with the agricultural industry driving the bulk of the country’s
exports. The economy is strongly trade oriented, with exports of goods
and services representing approximately one-third of GDP. Due to the
smallsizeoftheeconomyanditssignificanttradeactivities,NewZealand
is highly sensitive to global performance, especially of its key trading
partners, Australia and Japan. Together, Australia and Japan represent
30percentofNewZealand’stradingactivity.DuringtheAsiancrisis,New
Zealand’sGDPcontractedby1.3percentasaresultofreduceddemandfor
exports,aswellastwoconsecutivedroughtsthatreducedagriculturaland
relatedproduction.NewZealand’smostimportanttradingpartnersare:
LeadingExportMarkets
1. Australia
2. UnitedStates
3. Japan
LeadingImportSources
1. Australia
2. China
3. UnitedStates
Monetary and Fiscal Policy Makers—Reserve
Bank of New Zealand
The Reserve Bank of New Zealand (RBNZ) is the central bank of New
Zealand.TheMonetaryPolicyCommitteeisaninternalcommitteeofbank

P1:JYS
c12 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 17:48 Printer:Yettocome
262 DAYTRADINGANDSWINGTRADINGTHECURRENCYMARKET
executiveswhoreviewmonetarypolicyonaweeklybasis.Meetingstode-
cide on changes to monetary policy occur eight times a year or approxi-
matelyeverysixweeks.Unlikemostothercentralbanks,thedecisionfor
rate changes rests ultimately on the bank’s governor. The current Policy
TargetAgreementssetbytheministerandthegovernorfocusonmaintain-
ingpolicystabilityandavoidingunnecessaryinstabilityinoutput,interest
rates, and the exchange rate. Price stability refers to maintaining the an-
nualCPIinflationat1.5percent.IftheRBNZdoesnotmeetthistarget,the
government has the ability to dismiss the governor of the RBNZ, though
thisisrarelydone.ThisservesasastrongincentivefortheRBNZtomeet
itsinflationtarget.ThemostcommontoolsusedbytheRBNZtoimplement
monetarypolicychangesare:
Official Cash Rate The official cash rate (OCR) is the rate set by the
RBNZtoimplementmonetarypolicy.Thebanklendsovernightcashat25
basis points above the OCR rate and receives deposits or pays interest at
25basispointsbelowthisrate.Bycontrollingthecostofliquidityforcom-
mercial banks, the RBNZ can influence the interest rates offered to indi-
vidualsandcorporations.Thiseffectivelycreatesa50-basis-pointcorridor
that bounds the interbank overnight rate. The idea is that banks offering
fundsabovetheupperboundwillattractfewtakers,becausefundscanbe
borrowedforalowercostfromtheRBNZ.Banksofferingratesbelowthe
lower bound also will attract few takers, because they are offering lower
yields than the RBNZ. The official cash rate is reviewed and manipulated
tomaintaineconomicstability.
Objectives for Fiscal Policy Open market operations are used to
meet the cash target. The cash target is the targeted amount of re-
serves held by registered banks. The current target is NZ$20 million. The
RBNZ prepares forecasts of daily fluctuations on the cash target and
will then use these forecasts to determine the amount of funds to in-
ject or withdraw in order to meet the cash target. The following objec-
tives from the New Zealand Treasury provide a guideline for fiscal policy
measures:
(cid:1)
Expenses. Expenses will average around 35 percent of GDP over the
horizonusedtocalculatecontributionstowardfutureNewZealandsu-
perannuation(NZS)costs.Duringthebuildupofassetstomeetfuture
NZS costs, expenses plus contributions will be around 35 percent of
GDP.Inthelongerterm,expenseslesswithdrawalstomeetNZScosts
willbearound35percentofGDP.
(cid:1)
Revenue.Raisesufficientrevenuetomeettheoperatingbalanceobjec-
tive:arobust,broad-basedtaxsystemthatraisesrevenueinafairand
efficientway.

P1:JYS
c12 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 17:48 Printer:Yettocome
ProfilesandUniqueCharacteristicsofMajorCurrencyPairs 263
(cid:1)
Operating balance. Operating surplus on average over the economic
cyclesufficienttomeettherequirementsforcontributionstowardfu-
tureNZScostsandensureconsistencywiththedebtobjective.
(cid:1)
Debt. Gross debt below 30 percent of GDP on average over the eco-
nomic cycle. Net debt, which excludes the assets to meet future NZS
costs,below20percentofGDPonaverageovertheeconomiccycle.
(cid:1)
Net worth. Increase net worth consistent with the operating balance
objective. This will be achieved through a buildup of assets to meet
futureNZScosts.
Important Characteristics of the
New Zealand Dollar
(cid:1)
StrongcorrelationwithAUD.
Australia is New Zealand’s largest trading partner. This, coupled
with the proximity of the countries and the fact that New Zealand is
highlytradeoriented,createsstrongtiesbetweentheeconomiesofthe
twocountries.WhentheAustralianeconomydoeswellandAustralian
corporationsincreasetheirimportingactivities,NewZealandisoneof
thefirsttobenefit.Infact,since1999,theAustralianeconomyhasper-
formedextremelywellwithaboominghousingmarketthatcreateda
needtoincreaseimportsofbuildingproducts.Asaresult,thisstrength
translated into a 10 percent increase in Australia’s imports from New
Zealandbetween1999and2002.Figure12.8illustrateshowthesetwo
currency pairs are near-perfect mirror images of each other. In fact,
over the past five years, the two currency pairs have had a positive
correlationofapproximately97percent.
(cid:1)
Commodity-linkedcurrency.
NewZealandisanexport-driveneconomywithcommoditiesrep-
resenting over 40 percent of the country’s exports. This has resulted
in a 50 percent positive correlation between the New Zealand dollar
andcommodityprices.Thatis,ascommoditypricesincrease,theNew
Zealand dollar also has a bias for appreciation. The correlation be-
tween the Australian dollar and the New Zealand dollar contributes
tothecurrency’sstatusasacommodity-linkedcurrency.However,the
NewZealanddollar’scorrelationwithcommoditypricesisnotlimited
to its own trade activities. In fact, the performance of the Australian
economy is also highly correlated with commodity prices. Therefore,
ascommoditypricesincrease,theAustralianeconomybenefits,trans-
latingintoincreasedactivityinallaspectsofthecountry’soperations,
includingtradewithNewZealand.
(cid:1)
Carrytrades.
With one of the highest interest rates of the industrialized coun-
tries, the New Zealand dollar has traditionally been one of the most

P1:JYS
c12 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 17:48 Printer:Yettocome
264 DAYTRADINGANDSWINGTRADINGTHECURRENCYMARKET
AUD/USD vs. NZD/USD 1998–2008
1998 2000 2002 2004 2006 2008
8.0
7.0
6.0
5.0
4.0
DSU/DZN
AUD/USD (Ihs)
NZD/USD (rhs)
DSU/DUA
9.0
8.0
7.0
6.0
5.0
FIGURE 12.8 AUD/USDvs.NZD/USDChart
popularcurrenciestopurchaseforcarrytrades.Acarrytradeinvolves
buying or lending a currency with a high interest rate and selling or
borrowing a currency with a low interest rate. The popularity of the
carry trade has contributed to the rise of the New Zealand dollar in
anenvironmentwheremanyglobalinvestorsarelookingforopportu-
nities to earn high yields. However, this also makes the New Zealand
dollarparticularlysensitivetochangesininterestrates.Thatis,when
the United States begins increasing interest rates while New Zealand
staysonholdorreducesinterestrates,thecarryadvantageoftheNew
Zealanddollarwouldnarrow.Insuchsituations,theNewZealanddol-
larcouldcomeunderpressureasspeculatorsreversetheircarrytrader
positions.(SeeFigure12.9.)
(cid:1)
Interestratedifferentials.
Interest rate differentials between the cash rates of New Zealand
andtheshort-terminterestrateyieldsofotherindustrializedcountries
are closely watched by professional NZD traders. These differentials

P1:JYS
c12 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 17:48 Printer:Yettocome
ProfilesandUniqueCharacteristicsofMajorCurrencyPairs 265
FIGURE 12.9 NZD/USDFive-YearChart
(Source:www.eSignal.com)
canbegoodindicatorsofpotentialmoneyflowsastheyindicatehow
muchpremiumyieldNZDshort-termfixedincomeassetsareoffering
over foreign short-term fixed income assets, or vice versa. This
differential provides traders with indications of potential currency
movements,asinvestorsarealwayslookingforassetswiththehighest
yields. This is particularly important to carry traders who enter and
exit their positions based on the positive interest rate differentials
betweenglobalfixedincomeassets.
(cid:1)
Populationmigration.
As mentioned earlier, New Zealand has a very small population,
equal to less than half that of New York City. Therefore, increases in
migration into the country can have significant effects on the econ-
omy. Between 2006 and 2007, the population of New Zealand in-
creased by 161,276 people versus an increase of 1,700 between 2001
and 2002. Although these absolute numbers appear small, for New
Zealand they are fairly significant. In fact, this strong population
migration into New Zealand has contributed significantly to the per-
formanceoftheeconomy,becauseasthepopulationincreases,thede-
mandforhouseholdgoodsincreases,leadingtoanincreaseinoverall
consumption.
(cid:1)
Droughteffects.
Since the bulk of New Zealand’s exports are commodities, the
country’s GDP is highly sensitive to severe weather conditions that
maydamagethecountry’sfarmingactivities.In1998,droughtscostthe
countryover$50million.Inaddition,droughtsarealsoveryfrequentin
Australia,NewZealand’slargesttradingpartner.Thesedroughtshave

P1:JYS
c12 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 17:48 Printer:Yettocome
266 DAYTRADINGANDSWINGTRADINGTHECURRENCYMARKET
costAustraliaupto1percentinGDP,whichalsotranslatedintoaneg-
ativeimpactontheNewZealandeconomy.
Important Economic Indicators for New Zealand
NewZealanddoesnotreleaseeconomicindicatorsoften,butthefollowing
arethemostimportant.
GrossDomesticProduct GDPisaquarterlymeasureofthetotalpro-
duction and consumption of goods and services in New Zealand. GDP is
measuredbyaddingexpendituresbyhouseholds,businesses,government,
andnetforeignpurchases.TheGDPpricedeflatorisusedtoconvertout-
putmeasuredatcurrentpricesintoconstant-dollarGDP.Thisdataisused
togaugewhereinthebusinesscycleNewZealandfindsitself.Fastgrowth
oftenisperceivedasinflationarywhilelow(ornegative)growthindicates
arecessionaryorweakeconomy.
Consumer Price Index The consumer price index (CPI) measures
quarterly changes in the price of a basket of goods and services that ac-
count for a high proportion of expenditure by the CPI population group
(i.e.,metropolitanhouseholds).Thisbasketcoversawiderangeofgoods
andservicesincludingfood,housing,education,transportation,andhealth.
This is the key indicator to watch as monetary policy changes are made
basedonthisindex,whichisameasureofinflation.
Balance of Goods and Services NewZealand’sbalanceofpayments
statementsarerecordsofthevalueofNewZealand’stransactionsingoods,
services,income,andtransferswiththerestoftheworld,andthechanges
in New Zealand’s financial claims on the rest of the world (assets) and li-
abilities to the rest of the world. New Zealand’s International Investment
Positionstatementshows,ataparticularpointintime,thestockofacoun-
try’sinternationalfinancialassetsandinternationalfinancialliabilities.
Private Consumption This is a national accounts measure that re-
flects current expenditure by households, and producers of private non-
profit services to households. It includes purchases of durable as well as
nondurable goods. However, it excludes expenditures by persons on the
purchase ofdwellingsandexpenditures ofacapitalnaturebyunincorpo-
ratedenterprises.
Producer Price Index The producer price index (PPI) is a family of
indexes that measures average changes in selling prices received by do-
mestic producers for their output. The PPI tracks changes in prices for

P1:JYS
c12 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 17:48 Printer:Yettocome
ProfilesandUniqueCharacteristicsofMajorCurrencyPairs 267
nearly every goods-producing industry in the domestic economy, includ-
ingagriculture,electricityandnaturalgas,forestry,fisheries,manufactur-
ing, and mining. Foreign exchange markets tend to focus on seasonally
adjustedfinishedgoodsPPIandhowtheindexhasreactedonamonth-on-
month, quarter-on-quarter, half-year-on-half-year, and year-on-year basis.
NewZealand’sPPIdataisreleasedonaquarterlybasis.
CURRENCY PROFILE: CANADIAN
DOLLAR (CAD)
Broad Economic Overview
Canadaistheworld’sseventhlargestcountrywithGDPvaluedatUS$1.178
trillionin2006.Thecountryhasbeengrowingconsistentlysince1991.Itis
typicallyknownasaresource-basedeconomy,asthecountry’searlyeco-
nomicdevelopmenthingeduponexploitationandexportsofthecountry’s
natural resources. It is now the world’s fifth largest producer of gold and
the fourteenth largest producer of oil. However, in actuality nearly two-
thirdsofthecountry’sGDPcomesfromtheservicesector,whichalsoem-
ploysthreeoutofeveryfourCanadians.Thestrengthintheservicesector
ispartlyattributedtothetrendbybusinessestosubcontractalargeportion
oftheirservices.Thismayincludeamanufacturingcompanysubcontract-
ing delivery services to a transportation company. Despite this, manufac-
turingandresourcesarestillveryimportantfortheCanadianeconomy,as
theyrepresentover25percentofthecountry’sexportsandaretheprimary
sourceofincomeforanumberofprovinces.
TheCanadianeconomystartedtoadvancewiththedepreciationofits
currencyagainsttheU.S.dollarandtheFreeTradeAgreementthatcame
intoeffectonJanuary1,1989.Thisagreementeliminatedalmostalltrade
tariffs between the United States and Canada. As a result, Canada now
exports over 78 percent of their goods to the United States. Further ne-
gotiations to incorporate Mexico created the North American Free Trade
Agreement (NAFTA), which took effect on January 1, 1994. This more
advancedtreatyeliminatedmosttariffsontradingbetweenallthreecoun-
tries.Canada’sclosetraderelationshipwiththeUnitedStatesmakesitpar-
ticularly sensitive to the health of the U.S. economy. If the U.S. economy
sputters,demandforCanadianexportswouldsuffer.Thesameistruefor
theoppositescenario:ifU.S.economicgrowthisrobust,Canadianexports
willbenefit.ThefollowingisabreakdownofCanada’stradingpartners:
LeadingExportMarkets
1. UnitedStates
2. UnitedKingdom

P1:JYS
c12 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 17:48 Printer:Yettocome
268 DAYTRADINGANDSWINGTRADINGTHECURRENCYMARKET
3. China
4. Japan
5. Eurozone
LeadingImportSources
1. UnitedStates
2. China
3. Eurozone
4. UnitedKingdom
5. Japan
Monetary and Fiscal Policy Makers—Bank
of Canada
Canada’s central bank is known as the Bank of Canada (BOC). The Gov-
erning Council of the Bank of Canada is the board that is responsible for
settingmonetarypolicy.Thiscouncilconsistsofsevenmembers:thegov-
ernorandsixdeputygovernors.TheBankofCanadameetsapproximately
eighttimesperyeartodiscusschangesinmonetarypolicy.Italsoreleases
amonthlymonetarypolicyupdateeveryquarter.
Central Bank Goals The Bank of Canada’s focus is on maintaining
the“integrityandvalueofthecurrency.”Thisprimarilyinvolvesensuring
pricestability.Pricestabilityismaintainedbyadheringtoaninflationtar-
get agreed upon with the Department of Finance. This inflation target is
currently set at 1 to 3 percent. The bank believes that high inflation can
bedamagingtothefunctioningoftheeconomy,whilelowinflationonthe
otherhandequatestopricestability,whichcanhelptofostersustainable
long-termeconomicgrowth.TheBOCcontrolsinflationthroughshort-term
interest rates. If inflation is above the target, the bank will apply tighter
monetary conditions. If it is below the target, the bank will loosen mone-
tarypolicy.Overall,thecentralbankhasdoneaprettygoodjobofkeeping
theinflationtargetwithinthebandsince1998.
The bank measures monetary conditions using its Monetary Condi-
tionsIndex,whichisaweightedsumofchangesinthe90-daycommercial
paperrateandG-10trade-weightedexchangerate.Theweightoftheinter-
estrateversustheexchangerateis3to1,whichistheeffectofachangein
interestratesontheexchangeratebasedonhistoricalstudies.Thismeans
thata1percentincreaseinshort-terminterestratesisthesameasa3per-
centappreciationofthetrade-weightedexchangerate.Inordertochange
monetarypolicies,theBOCwouldmanipulatethebankrate,whichwould
inturnaffecttheexchangerate.Ifthecurrencyappreciatestoundesirable

P1:JYS
c12 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 17:48 Printer:Yettocome
ProfilesandUniqueCharacteristicsofMajorCurrencyPairs 269
levels,theBOCcandecreaseinterestratestooffsettherise.Ifitdepreci-
ates,theBOCcanraiserates.However,interestratechangesarenotused
forthepurposesofmanipulatingtheexchangerate.Instead,theyareused
to control inflation. The following are the tools most commonly used by
theBOCtoimplementmonetarypolicy.
Bank Rate Thisisthemainrateusedtocontrolinflation.Itistherate
ofinterestthattheBankofCanadachargestocommercialbanks.Changes
to this rate will affect other interest rates, including mortgage rates and
primerateschargedbycommercialbanks.Thereforechangestothisrate
willfilterintotheoveralleconomy.
OpenMarketOperations TheLargeValueTransferSystem(LVTS)is
theframeworkfortheBankofCanada’simplementationofmonetarypol-
icy.ItisthroughthisframeworkthatCanada’scommercialbanksborrow
andlendovernightmoneytoeachotherinordertofundtheirdailytrans-
actions.TheLVTSisanelectronicplatformthroughwhichthesefinancial
institutionsconductlargetransactions.Theinterestratechargedonthese
overnightloansiscalledtheovernightrateorbankrate.TheBOCcanma-
nipulatetheovernightratebyofferingtolendatrateslowerorhigherthan
the current market rate if the overnight lending rate is trading above or
belowthetargetbanks.
Onaregularbasis,thebankreleasesanumberofpublicationsthatare
importanttowatch.ThisincludesabiannualMonetaryPolicyReportthat
contains an assessment of the current economic environment and impli-
cationsforinflationandaquarterlyBankofCanadaReviewthatincludes
economiccommentary,featurearticles,speechesbymembersoftheGov-
erningCouncil,andimportantannouncements.
Important Characteristics of the Canadian Dollar
(cid:1)
Commodity-linkedcurrency.
Canada’s economy is highly dependent on commodities. As men-
tionedearlier,theyarecurrentlytheworld’sfifthlargestgoldproducer
and the fourteenth largest oil producer. The positive correlation be-
tweentheCanadiandollarandcommoditypricesiscloseto60percent.
Strongcommoditypricesgenerallybenefitdomesticproducersandin-
creasetheirincomefromexports.Thereisacaveat,though,andthat
iseventuallystrongcommoditypriceswillhurtexternaldemandfrom
places liketheUnited States, which could filterintoreduced demand
forCanadianexports.
(cid:1)
StrongcorrelationwiththeUnitedStates.
TheUnitedStatesimports78percentofCanada’sexports.Canada
hasbeenrunningmerchandisetradesurpluseswiththeUnitedStates

P1:JYS
c12 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 17:48 Printer:Yettocome
270 DAYTRADINGANDSWINGTRADINGTHECURRENCYMARKET
since the 1980s. The current account surplus with the United States
reached a record high of $90 billion in 2003. Strong demand from the
UnitedStatesandstrongenergypricesledtorecordhighsinthevalue
of energy exports of approximately $36 billion in 2001. Therefore the
CanadianeconomyishighlysensitivetochangesintheU.S.economy.
AstheU.S.economyaccelerates,tradeincreaseswithCanadiancom-
panies, benefiting the performance of the overall economy. However,
astheU.S.economyslows,theCanadianeconomywillbehurtsignifi-
cantlyasU.S.companiesreducetheirimportingactivities.
(cid:1)
Mergersandacquisitions.
Due to the proximity of the United States and Canada, cross-
border mergers and acquisitions are very common, as companies
worldwide strive for globalization. These mergers and acquisitions
lead to money flowing between the two countries, which ultimately
impact the currencies. Specifically, the significant U.S. acquisition of
Canadianenergycompaniesin2001ledtoU.S.corporationsinjecting
over$25billionintoCanada.ThisledtoastrongrallyinUSD/CAD,as
theU.S.companiesneededtosellUSDandbuyCADinordertopayfor
theiracquisitions.Figure12.10showsthefiveyearchartofUSD/CAD.
(cid:1)
Interestratedifferentials.
Interest rate differentials between the cash rates of Canada and
theshort-terminterestrateyieldsofotherindustrializedcountriesare
closelywatchedbyprofessionalCanadiandollartraders.Thesediffer-
entialscanbegoodindicatorsofpotentialmoneyflowsastheyindicate
howmuchpremiumyieldCanadiandollarshort-termfixedincomeas-
sets are offering over foreign short-term fixed income assets, or vice
FIGURE 12.10 USD/CADFive-YearChart
(Source:www.eSignal.com)

P1:JYS
c12 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 17:48 Printer:Yettocome
ProfilesandUniqueCharacteristicsofMajorCurrencyPairs 271
versa. This differential provides traders with indications of potential
currency movements, as investors are always looking for assets with
the highest yields. This is particularly important to carry traders who
enterandexittheirpositionsbasedonthepositiveinterestratediffer-
entialsbetweenglobalfixedincomeassets.
(cid:1)
Carrytrades.
The Canadian dollar became a popular currency to use for carry
trades after its three-quarter-point rate increases between April and
Julyof2002.Acarrytradeinvolvesbuyingorlendingacurrencywitha
highinterestrateandsellingorborrowingacurrencywithalowinter-
estrate.WhenCanadahasahigherinterestratethantheUnitedStates,
theshortUSD/CADcarrytradebecomesoneofthemorepopularcarry
trades due to the proximity of the two countries. The carry trade is a
populartrade,asmanyforeigninvestorsandhedgefundslookforop-
portunitiestoearnhighyields.However,iftheUnitedStatesembarks
onatighteningcampaignorCanadabeginstolowerrates,thepositive
interestratedifferentialbetweentheCanadiandollarandothercurren-
cieswouldnarrow.Insuchsituations,theCanadiandollarcouldcome
underpressureifthespeculatorsbegintoexittheircarrytrades.
Important Economic Indicators for Canada
Unemployment The unemployment rate represents the number of un-
employedpersonsexpressedasapercentageofthelaborforce.
Consumer Price Index Thismeasurestheaveragerateofincreasein
prices.Wheneconomistsspeakofinflationasaneconomicproblem,they
generallymeanapersistentincreaseinthegeneralpriceleveloveraperiod
of time, resulting in a decline in a currency’s purchasing power. Inflation
is often measured as a percentage increase in the consumer price index
(CPI).Canada’sinflationpolicy,assetoutbythefederalgovernmentand
the Bank of Canada, aims to keep inflation within a target range of 1 to 3
percent.Iftherateofinflationis10percentayear,$100worthofpurchases
last year will, on average, cost $110 this year. At the same inflation rate,
thosepurchaseswillcost$121nextyear,andsoon.
Gross Domestic Product Canada’s gross domestic product (GDP)
is the total value of all goods and services produced within Canada dur-
ing a given year. It is a measure of the income generated by production
withinCanada.GDPisalsoreferredtoaseconomicoutput.Toavoidcount-
ing the same output more than once, GDP includes only final goods and
services—not those that are used to make another product: GDP would

P1:JYS
c12 JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 17:48 Printer:Yettocome
272 DAYTRADINGANDSWINGTRADINGTHECURRENCYMARKET
not include the wheat used to make bread, but would include the bread
itself.
Balance of Trade The balance of trade is a statement of a country’s
tradeingoods(merchandise)andservices.Itcoverstradeinproductssuch
as manufactured goods, raw materials, and agricultural goods, as well as
travel and transportation. The balance of trade is the difference between
the value of the goods and services that a country exports and the value
ofthegoodsandservicesthatitimports.Ifacountry’sexportsexceedits
imports,ithasatradesurplusandthetradebalanceissaidtobepositive.
Ifimportsexceedexports,thecountryhasatradedeficitanditstradebal-
anceissaidtobenegative.
ProducerPriceIndex Theproducerpriceindex(PPI)isafamilyofin-
dexesthatmeasuresaveragechangesinsellingpricesreceivedbydomes-
ticproducersfortheiroutput.ThePPItrackschangesinpricesfornearly
every goods-producing industry in the domestic economy, including agri-
culture,electricityandnaturalgas,forestry,fisheries,manufacturing,and
mining. Foreign exchange markets tend to focus on seasonally adjusted
finished goods PPI and how the index has reacted on a month-on-month,
quarter-on-quarter,half-year-on-half-year,andyear-on-yearbasis.
Consumer Consumption Thisisanationalaccountsmeasurethatre-
flects current expenditure by households, and producers of private non-
profit services to households. It includes purchases of durable as well as
nondurable goods. However, it excludes expenditures by persons on the
purchase ofdwellingsandexpenditures ofacapitalnaturebyunincorpo-
ratedenterprises.

P1:JYS
AboutTheAuthor JWBK299-Lein September23,2008 9:49 Printer:Yettocome
About the Author
K
athy Lien is the Director of Currency Research at GFT Forex. She
is responsible for providing research and analysis including techni-
cal and fundamental research reports, market commentaries, and
trading strategies. Prior to joining GFT, Lien was the Chief Strategist of
DailyFX.com and an associate at JPMorgan Chase where she worked
in cross-markets and foreign exchange trading. She has vast experience
withintheinterbankmarketusingbothtechnicalandfundamentalanalysis
totradeFXspotandoptions.Shealsohasexperiencetradinganumberof
productsoutsideofFX,includinginterestratederivatives,bonds,equities,
and futures. Lien has written for Active Trader, Futures, and SFO mag-
azines and is frequently quoted on CNBC, Bloomberg, Fox Business, and
Reuters.SheisalsotheauthorofthefirsteditionofDayTradingtheCur-
rencyMarketaswellasMillionaireTraders,bothofwhicharepublished
byWiley.
273

P1:JYS
AboutTheAuthor JWBK299-Lein September23,2008 9:49 Printer:Yettocome
274

P1:JYS
ind JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 19:45 Printer:Yettocome
Index
10-daySimplemovingaverage(SMA), dollardriventheory,55
136 limitationsof,55,57
15-minuteCharts,112–13 Yenexample,56–7
20-dayExponentialmovingaverage AustralianDollar(AUD),87–8
(EMA),150 broadeconomicoverview,254
20-daySimplemovingaverage(SMA), currencyprofilesandunique
136 characteristics,254–60
50-daySimplemovingaverage(SMA), importantcharacteristicsof
136 AustralianDollar,258–9
100-daySimplemovingaverage(SMA), importanteconomicindicatorsfor
136,150 Australia,259–60
2004U.S.presidentialelection, leadingexportmarkets,254
178–9 monetaryandfiscalpolicy
makers-ReserveBankofAustralia
Advances,10 (RBA),255–8
ADX(AverageDirectionalIndex)less AustralianDollar,important
than20: characteristicsof:
rangetrading,99–100 carrytradeeffects,258
trendtrading,102 commodity-linkedcurrency,258
Appreciation/depreciation,251 droughteffects,258–9
Around-the-clockmarket,5–6 interestratedifferentials,259
ASEAN(AssociationofSoutheast AustralianDollar,importanteconomic
AsianNations),254 indicatorsfor:
Asianfinancialcrisis,30–33 balanceofgoodsandservices,260
thebubble,30 consumerpriceindex(CPI),259–60
currencycrisis,31–3 grossdomesticproduct(GDP),
currentaccountsdeficitand 259
nonperformingloans,30–31 privateconsumption,260
Asianmarket,120 producerpriceindex(PPI),260
Asiansession(Tokyo),67–9 Austria,33
Asianstrength/weakness,250 Averagedown,211
Assetsmarketmodel: Averagedrawdown,213
about,54
currencysubstitutionmodel, Back-testing,211
55–7 Bahtcurrency,31
275

P1:JYS
ind JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 19:45 Printer:Yettocome
276 INDEX
Balanceofgoodsandservices: Booker,Bob,210
importanteconomicindicatorsfor Bottomfishing,155–6
Australia,260 Boucher,Mark,109
importanteconomicindicatorsfor Breaks,108
theNewZealand,266 BrettonWoodsConference,21–3
Balanceofpayments,48 BritishPound(GBP):
importanteconomicindicatorsfor BankRepoRate,236
Japan,253 broadeconomicoverview,
importanteconomicindicatorsfor 233–4
Switzerland,247 currencyprofilesandunique
Balanceofpaymentsdeficit,49 characteristics,233–40
Balanceofpaymentstheory: importantcharacteristics,
about,46–7 236–9
capitalflows,47–8 importanteconomicindicatorsfor
modellimitations,49 theUnitedKingdom,239–41
summaryofcapitalandtradeflows, leadingexportmarkets,
48–9 233–4
tradeflows,47 leadingimportmarkets,234
Balanceoftrade,272 monetaryandfiscalpolicy
BankofCanadaReview(BOC),269 makers-BankofEngland(BOE),
BankofEngland(BOE),10,235 235–6
BankofEnglandfailure: openmarketoperations,236
Sorosbetsagainst,28–9 vs.UnitedKingdomadoptionof
UnitedKingdomjoinsExchange Euro,234–5
RateMechanism,27–8 BritishPound(GBP),important
BankofJapan(BOJ),10 characteristicsof,236–9
interventionpractices,250–251 energypricecorrelation,239
reports,249 Eurosterlingfutures,238
Bankrate,269 GBPcrosses,239
Bankratevs.exchangerate,268 GBP/USDliquidity,236–7
BankRepoRate,236 interestratedifferentialsbetween
Bankingstocks,252 giltsandforeignbonds,238
Basketofgoods,50 namesusedfor,237
Belgium,33 speculationin,237–8
Bigeventstiming,177–8 U.K.politicians’impactonEuro,
BigMacindex,50 238–9
BlackWednesday,3,28 Bubbles:
BollingerBands,93,100 Asianfinancialcrisis,30
Bondmarketsseefixedincome housingmarket,62
markets: Japan’sbubble,248–9
Bondspreadsasaleadingindicator, tech,41
185–8 Budgetdeficits,232
interestratedifferentials,185–8
interestratedifferentials CableseeBritishPound(GBP):
calculationsandcurrencypairs, Calculationofcurrencycorrelations,
188 77–80

P1:JYS
ind JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 19:45 Printer:Yettocome
Index 277
CanadianDollar(CAD): Carrytradeoptimization,171–2
broadeconomicoverview,267–8 Carrytradeworkings,169–70
importantcharacteristicsof Carrytrades,263–4,271
CanadianDollar,269–71 Cashrate,256
importanteconomicindicatorsfor Centralbanks,10
Canada,271–2 inabilityof,31
leadingexportmarkets,267–8 roleof,26–7
leadingimportmarkets,268 Centralbanks’goals:
monetaryandfiscalpolicy monetaryandfiscalpolicy
makers-BankofCanada,268–9 makers-BankofCanada,268–9
CanadianDollar,important monetaryandfiscalpolicy
characteristicsof: makers-ReserveBankofAustralia
carrytrades,271 (RBA),255
commodity-linkedcurrency,269 SwissNationalBank,242–3
interestratedifferentials,270–271 Centralizedmarkets,17–18
mergerandacquisitions,270 Changeabilityofcurrency
strongcorrelationwiththeUnited correlations,77
States,269–70 Channelstrategy:
CanadianDollar,importanteconomic about,135–6
indicatorsfor: examplesof,136–8
balanceoftrade,272 Chartingeconomicsurprises,42–3
consumerconfidence,272 Charts,45
consumerpriceindex(CPI),271 ChicagoMercantileExchange(CME),
grossdomesticproduct(GDP), 14–15
271–2 China,39–40,219–20,247
producerpriceindex(PPI),272 ChineseRenminbi(RNB),39–40
unemployment,271 Commissions,6,11
Candlestickchart,124 Commodities,257
Capitalandtradeflows: Commoditypricesasaleading
physicalflows,39–40 indicator,180–185
portfolioflows,40 gold,181–2
tradeflows,41–2 oil,181–4
Capitalflowbalance,39,48 tradingopportunity,184–5
Capitalflows: Commodity-linkedcurrency,258,263,
balanceofpaymentstheory,47–8 269
capitalandtradeflows,39–40 Conditionalorders,115
equitymarkets,47–8 Consumerconfidence,272
fixedincomemarkets,48 ConsumerConfidenceSurvey,224
Carrytradeconsiderations: Consumerconsumption,255
low-interest-ratecurrency Consumerpriceindex(CPI),10
appreciation,175 economicindicatorsfortheUnited
timehorizon,176 States,222
tradebalances,175–6 importanteconomicindicatorsfor
Carrytradeeffects,244,252,258 Australia,259–60
Carrytradefailures,172–3 importanteconomicindicatorsfor
Carrytradeoperations,170–171 Canada,271

P1:JYS
ind JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 19:45 Printer:Yettocome
278 INDEX
Consumerpriceindex(CPI)(cont.) fundamentalanalysis,38–44
importanteconomicindicatorsfor technicalanalysis,44–5
Switzerland,246 Currencypairchecklist,92–5
importanteconomicindicatorsfor Currencypairranges,68
theNewZealand,266 Currencypairschoice,161–2
Correlationanalysis,75 Currencypairs,major,215–40
Correlationtradingwithfundamentals, Currencyprofilesandunique
203–4 characteristics:
Correlationtradingwithtechnicals, AustralianDollar(AUD),254–60
204–5 BritishPound(GBP),233–40
Correlationwithgold,244 CanadianDollar(CAD),267–72
Correlations: Euro(EUR),224–33
betweenNikkeiandDow,201–2 JapaneseYen(JPY),247–53
betweenNikkeiandUSD/JPY,202 NewZealandDollar(NZD),
betweenUSD/JPYandDow,202–3 260–267
Crawlingpeg,31 SwissFranc(CHF),241–7
Creditdefault,15 U.S.Dollar(USD),215–24
Currenciesseealsocurrencyprofiles Currencysubstitutionmodel,55–7
anduniquecharacteristics; Currencysupplyanddemand,38
specificcurrencies: Currencytradeselection,208–9
effectsof,onstocksandbonds,1–3 CurrencyShares(ETF),16
EUR/USDandcorporate Currentaccountdeficit,29,216
profitability,2 Currentaccountsurplus,242
GeorgeSoros,3 Currentaccountsdeficitand
NikkeiandU.S.Dollar,2–3 nonperformingloans,30–31
Currencycorrelations,75–80 Customizableleverage,6–7
about,75 CzechRepublic,35
calculationof,77–80
changeabilityof,77 Dailycharts,109–11,124,129
positive/negativecorrelations, Dailytradingvolume,1
meaningof,76–7 DayTradingtheCurrencyMarket
Currencycrisis,31–3 (Lein),59
Currencydealusage,219 Dealingstationsininterbankmarket,
Currencyforecasting,46–57 19
assetsmarketmodel,54–5 Decreasingimpliedvolatility,100
balanceofpaymentstheory,46–9 Deficits,47
interestrateparity,51 Denmark,33
monetarymodel,51–3 Derivativeproducts,13
purchasingpowerparity(PPP) Deuteschemark(DM),26
theory,49–51 Dollardriventheory,55
realinterestratedifferentialmodel, DollarIndex,221
53–4 Dollar/goldconvertibility,23
Currencymovement,longterm,37–57 Droughteffects,258–9,265–6
about,37
chartingeconomicsurprises,42–3 ECBminimumbidrate(REPORate),
currencyforecasting,46–57 228

P1:JYS
ind JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 19:45 Printer:Yettocome
Index 279
Economicdatachangeswithtime, correlationbetweenNikkeiand
62–3 USD/JPY,202
EconomicindicatorsfortheUnited correlationbetweenUSD/JPYand
States: Dow,202–3
ConsumerConfidenceSurvey,224 Equitymarkets:
consumerpriceindex(CPI),222 capitalflows,47–8
employmentcostindex(ECI),223 portfolioflows,40
employment-nonfarmpayrolls,222 ESignal(commercialsoftware),211
grossdomesticproduct(GDP),223 EstablishmentSurvey,222
IndustrialProductionIndex,224 Estonia,35
InstituteforSupplyManagement EUtaxevaders,245
(ISM)(FormerlyNAPM),223 Euriborfutures,41
internationaltrade,223 Euro(EUR):
producerpriceindex(PPI),222–3 vs.BritishPound(GBP),234–5
RetailSalesIndex,224 broadeconomicoverview,224–6
TreasuryInternationalCapitalFlow EuropeanCentralBank(ECB),
Data(TICData),224 225–6
Economicoverview,broad: EuropeanMonetaryUnion(EMU),
AustralianDollar(AUD),254 225
BritishPound(GBP),233–4 importantcharacteristicsof,228–30
CanadianDollar(CAD),267–8 importantindicatorsforEuro,
Euro(EUR),224–6 230–233
JapaneseYen(JPY),247–53 leadingexportmarkets,225–6
NewZealandDollar(NZD),260–261 leadingimportmarkets,226
U.S.Dollar(USD),215–17 Euro,importantcharacteristicsof:
Economicreleases,59–62 Eurosentiment,230
ElectronicBrokeringServices(EBS), Euroborrate(eurointerbankoffer
18 rate),230
Electronicbrokeringsystems,18 Euro/USDcrosscurrencypair
Electroniccommunicationnetworks liquidity,228–9
(ECNs),5 importantindicatorsfor,230–231
Emergingmarkets,220 uniquerisksof,229–30
Emotionaldetachment,107–8 Euro,importantindicatorsfor:
Employment,253 GermanIndustrialProduction,231
Employmentcostindex(ECI),223 InflationIndicators,231–3
Employmentsituation,239–40 preliminaryGDP,230–231
Employment-nonfarmpayrolls,222 Euroadoptionarguments,235
Energypricecorrelation,239 Eurointroduction,33–5
Energyprices,270 Eurosentiment,230
Enteringandexitingskills, Euroborrate(eurointerbankoffer
210–211 rate),230
Equitiesmarketattributes,4–5 EuropeanCentralBank(ECB),10,33
EquitiesusedtotradeFX: ECBminimumbidrate(REPO
about,200–201 Rate),228
correlationbetweenNikkeiand EMUcriteria,227
Dow,201–2 Euro(EUR),225–6

P1:JYS
ind JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 19:45 Printer:Yettocome
280 INDEX
EuropeanCentralBank(ECB)(cont.) examplesof,133–5
openmarketoperations, strategyrules,132–3
227–8 FinancialServicesAuthority(FSA)
EuropeanCurrencyUnit(ECU),27 guidelines,251
EuropeanMonetarySystem,3 Finland,33
EuropeanMonetarySystem(EMS),27 Firsttargetalteration,162
EuropeanMonetaryUnion(EMU): Fiscalpolicy,34,218
Euro(EUR),225 Fiscalpolicymeasures,262
membersof,33 FiscalResponsibilityAct,261
EuropeanMonetaryUnion(EMU) Fisher,Irving,27
criteria,227 Fixedincomemarkets:
Europeansession(London),71–3 capitalflows,48
EuropeanUnioncountries,224–5 portfolioflows,40
Eurosterlingfutures,238 Floatingloss,213
Euro/USDcrosscurrencypair Floatingpegs,219
liquidity,228–9 Foreigndirectinvestment,39,47,216
Eurozoneinterventions,199–200 Foreignexchange(FX):
EUR/USDandcorporateprofitability, marketkeyattributes,4,10
2 volatility,60
ExchangeRateMechanism(ERM),3, Foreignexchange(FX)marketvs.
27 futuresandequities,3–13
Exchangeratevs.bankrate,268 FXvs.equities,4–5
Exchangetradedfunds(ETFs),16 Foreignexchange(FX)spotseespot:
Executionquality,FXvs.futures, Foreignexchange(FX)trading
12–13 methods:
Existingorcompletedtrades, about,13
96–8 exchangetradedfunds(ETFs),16
futures,14–15
Faders: options,15–16
examplesof,130–132 spot,14
furtheroptimization,130 Foreignexchange(FX)vs.equities:
strategyrules,129–30 around-the-clock24-hourmarket,
Fadingthedoublezeros,115–20 5–6
about,115–16 customizableleverage,6–7
examplesof,117–20 equitiesmarketattributes,4–5
furtheroptimizations,117 FXmarketkeyattributes,4
marketconditions,117 slippage,7–8
strategyrules,116–17 stocksvs.countries,8–10
Falsebreakouts,125,129 technicalanalysis,8
Familiaritywithtradingstrategy, tradingcurbsoruptickrules,7
212–13 tradingerrorrates,7
Federalfundstarget,218 transactioncosts,6
FederalOpenMarketCommittee Foreignexchange(FX)vs.futures,
(FOMC),120,217 10–11
Fibonacciretracementlevels,93 executionqualityandspeed/low
Filteringfalsebreakouts: errorrates,12–13

P1:JYS
ind JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 19:45 Printer:Yettocome
Index 281
futuresattributes,10–11 GBPcrosses,239
FXmarketkeyattributes,10 GBP/USDliquidity,236–7
markethoursandliquidity,11 GDPpricedeflator,246
nolimitupordownrules/profitin GeneralAgreementonTariffsand
bothbullandbearmarkets,12 Trade(GATT),22
transactioncosts,11–12 GermanBund,230
Foreignreserveassets,226 GermanIndustrialProduction,231
Forexseeforeignexchange(FX): Germanunemployment,232
Forwards,13 Germany,33,120
France,33,120 Gold,181–2,219,267,269
Freemarketcapitalism,23–4 Greece,33
FreeTradeAgreement,267 Grossdomesticproduct(GDP),8–9,
Fundamentalanalysis: 10,50,63
about,38–9 Australia,259
capitalandtradeflows,39–42 Canada,271–2
currencymovement,longterm, Japan,253
38–44 NewZealand,266
vs.technicalanalysis,37,45,208 Switzerland,246–7
Fundamentaltradingstrategies: UnitedKingdom,240
bondspreadsasaleadingindicator, UnitedStates,223
185–8
commoditypricesasaleading HarmonizedIndexofConsumerPrices
indicator,180–185 (HICP),227,231
equitiesusedtotradeFX,200–203 Hausen,RobertA.,81
interventions,195–200 Hedgefundmanagertrading:
leveragedcarrytrade,168–76 about,207–8
macroeconomiceventawareness, enteringandexitingskills,210–211
176–80 familiaritywithtradingstrategy,
optionvolatilitiestotimemarket 212–13
movements,191–5 self-reflection,213–14
pickingthestrongestpairing,165–8 testdrive(back-testing),211–12
riskreversals,189–91 tradingstrategydefined,208–10
tradingthecorrelationwith Hedgefundtradingstrategydefined:
fundamentals,203–4 currencytradeselection,208–9
tradingthecorrelationwith fundamentalortechnical,208
technicals,204–5 timeframeselection,209–10
Futures,13–15 Hierarchyofparticipantsin
Futuresattributes,FXvs.futures, decentralizedmarket,18–19
10–11 High-probabilityturnstrategy,155–64
FX(foreignexchange)seeforeign about,155–6
exchange(FX): currencypairschoice,161–2
FXCMSpeculativeSentimentIndex examplesof,159–61
(FXCMSSI),155 firsttargetalteration,162
sevenday(plus)moves,162–4
G-7Meeting,Dubai,September2003, sixdaymoves,162
177 strategyrules,157–9

P1:JYS
ind JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 19:45 Printer:Yettocome
282 INDEX
Historicalevents: Insidebreakoutplan,124–9
Asianfinancialcrisis,30–33 about,124–5
BankofEnglandfailure,27–9 examplesof,126–9
BrettonWoodsConference,21–3 furtheroptimizations,125–6
Eurointroduction,33–5 strategyrules,125
freemarketcapitalism,23–4 Insideday,124
GeorgeSoros,27–9 Insidedaystrategy,209
PlazaAccord,24–7 InstituteforSupplyManagement
HongKong,67,219 (ISM)(FormerlyNAPM),223
Hourlycharts,112–13 Interbankmarket,18
HouseholdSurvey,222 InterestRareParityTheory,27
Housingmarketbubble,62 Interestratedifferentials,185–8
Hungary,35 AustralianDollar,259
calculationsandcurrencypairs,188
Identifyingriskreversals,189 CanadianDollar,270–271
IFO(InformationandForschung betweengiltsandforeignbonds,238
[research])Survey,232–3 NewZealandDollar,264–5
Importantcharacteristics: SwissFranc,244–5
ofBritishPound(GBP),236–9 U.S.Dollar,220–221
ofEuro(EUR),228–30 Interestrateparity,51
TheIncredibleJanuaryEffect:The Interestrates,9–10
StockMarket’sUnsolvedMystery Internationalcapitalflows,49
(HausenandLakonishok),81 Internationaleconomicinstability,21
Indicators: Internationalgovernmentbonds,41
intradayrangetrade,103 InternationalMonetaryFund(IMF),22
medium-termbreakouttrade,104 InternationalSecuritiesExchange
medium-termrangetrade,103 (ISE),15
medium-termtrendtrade,103–4 Internationaltrade,223
Indonesia,29,31 Interventions,195–200
Industrialproduction(IP): about,195–6
Japan,253 Eurozone,199–200
UnitedKingdom,240 Japan,196–9
UnitedStates,224 Intradayrangetrade,103
Inflation,24 indicators,103
InflationIndicators: rules,103
EUHarmonizedIndexofConsumer Intradaytrading,115
Prices(HICP),231 Ireland,33
GermanUnemployment,232 ISMNonmanufacturing,59
IFO(InformationandForschung Italy,33
[research])Survey,232–3
importantindicatorsforEuro,231–3 Januaryseasonality,82–5
individualcountrybudgetdeficits, Japan:
232 bankingcrisisin,31–2
M3,232 fiscalyearof,84
InflationReport(MPC),236 interventions,196–9
Inflationtarget,242,268 tradinghours,67

P1:JYS
ind JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 19:45 Printer:Yettocome
Index 283
JapaneseYen,important JapaneseYen(JPY),247–8
characteristicsof: NewZealandDollar(NZD),261
BankofJapanintervention SwissFranc,241
practices.,250–251 U.S.Dollar(USD),217
bankingstocks,252 Leadingimportmarkets:
carrytradeeffects,252 BritishPound(GBP),234
JPYmovementsaresensitiveto CanadianDollar(CAD),268
time.,251–2 Euro(EUR),226
proxyforAsianstrength/weakness., JapaneseYen(JPY),248
250 NewZealandDollar(NZD),261
JapaneseYen,importanteconomic SwissFranc,241–2
indicatorsfor: U.S.Dollar(USD),217
balanceofpayments,253 Lend–LeaseAct,21
employment,253 Leveragedcarrytrade,168–76
grossdomesticproduct(GDP),253 carrytradeconsiderations,174–6
industrialproduction,253 carrytradefailures,172–3
TankanSurvey,253 carrytradeoperations,170–171
JapaneseYen(JPY),26,31 carrytradeoptimization,171–2
broadeconomicoverview,247–53 carrytradeworkings,169–70
currencyprofilesandunique riskaversion,173–4
characteristics,247–53 risklevels,172
importantcharacteristicsof Limitrules,FXvs.futures,12
JapaneseYen,250–252 London,68
importanteconomicindicatorsfor LondonInterbankOfferedRate
Japan,252–4 (LIBOR),3
Japan’sbubbleburst,248–9 Low-interest-ratecurrency
leadingexportmarkets,247–8 appreciation,175
leadingimportmarkets,248 Luxembourg,33
MonetaryandFiscalPolicy
Makers—BankofJapan,249–50 M3(moneysupply),227,232
Japan’sbubbleburst,248–9 MaastrichtTreaty,227
JPYmovementsaresensitivetotime, MaastrichtTreatyconvergence
251–2 criteria,35
MACDhistogram,128
KoFLeadingIndicators,246 Macroeconomiceventawareness,
176–80
Lakonishok,Josef,81 Managedrisk,106
Lamont,Norman,28 Margindeposit,6
LargeValueTransferSystem(LVTS), MarkTwaineffect,81
269 Marketconditions,117
Latvia,35 Markethoursandliquidity,FXvs.
Leadingexportmarkets: futures,11
AustralianDollar(AUD),254 Marketmakers,16
BritishPound(GBP),233–4 Marketstructure,115
CanadianDollar(CAD),267–8 Market-movingindicatorsforU.S.
Euro(EUR),225–6 dollar,61–2

P1:JYS
ind JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 19:45 Printer:Yettocome
284 INDEX
Mayseasonality,87–8 Monetaryandfiscalpolicy
Medium-termbreakouttrade: makers-ReserveBankofAustralia
indicators,104 (RBA):
rules,104 cashrate,256
tradingtimehorizondetermination, centralbank’sgoals,255
104 monetarypolicymeetings,257–8
Medium-termrangetrade: openmarketoperations,256–7
indicators,103 MonetaryandFiscalPolicy
rules,103 Makers-SwissNationalBank:
tradingtimehorizondetermination, SwissFranc,242
103 SwissNationalBank,242–3
Medium-termtrendtrade: Monetaryandfiscalpolicy-Bankof
indicators,103–4 NewZealand:
rules,104 NewZealandDollar(NZD),261–3
tradingtimehorizondetermination, objectivesforfiscalpolicy,262–3
103–4 officialcashrate,262
Mergerandacquisitionactivity,245 MonetaryConditionsIndex,268
Mergerandacquisitions,270 Monetarymodel,51–3
MetaTrader(commercialsoftware), limitationsof,52–3
211 useof,52
MillionaireTraders:HowEveryday Monetarypolicy,33–4,52,269
PeopleBeatWallStreetatIts MonetaryPolicyCommittee(MPC),
OwnGame,208,210 235
MinistryofFinance(MOF),248 Monetarypolicydecisions,255
Modelfunds,44 Monetarypolicymeetings,257–8
Modelsforforecastingcurrencies, MonetaryPolicyReport(BOC),269
46–57 MonetaryPolicyReport(FED),217
Momentumconsistentwithtrend Moneymanagementrule,152
direction,102 MonthlyBulletin(SNB),242
Momentumfunds,44 MonthlyEconomicReport(BOJ),249
Monetaryandfiscalpolicymakers- MonthlyReport(BOJ),249
TheFederalReserve,217–18 Movingaverage
federalfundstarget,218 convergence/divergence(MACD),
openmarketoperations,218 102,150
Monetaryandfiscalpolicy Movingaverages,102
makers-BankofCanada: Multipleentries,multipleexits
bankrate,269 strategy,211
centralbankgoals,268–9 Multipleentries,singleexitstrategy,
openmarketoperations,269 210–211
Monetaryandfiscalpolicy Multipletimeframeanalysis,109–15
makers-BankofEngland(BOE), dailycharts,109–11
235–6 examplesof,109–10
Monetaryandfiscalpolicy hourlycharts,112–13
makers-BankofJapan,249–50 valueof,113,115
OpenMarketOperations,
249–50 Netexporters,41–2

P1:JYS
ind JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 19:45 Printer:Yettocome
Index 285
theNetherlands,33 NorthAmericanFreeTrade
NewYorkCommoditiesExchange Agreement(NAFTA),267
(COMEX),11 Novemberseasonality,89
NewYorkMercantileExchange,11
NewZealandDollar,important Objectivesforfiscalpolicy,262–3
characteristicsof: OECDPurchasingPowerParityIndex,
carrytrades,263–4 50–51
commodity-linkedcurrency,263 Officialcashrate,262
droughteffects,265–6 Oil,181–4,233,267,269
interestratedifferentials,264–5 O’Neill,Paul,218
NewZealandDollar(NZD),263–6 Onlinecurrencytrading,1
populationmigration,265 Onlinetradingplatform,18
strongcorrelationwithAUD,263 Openmarketoperations,218
NewZealandDollar,important BankofCanada,269
economicindicatorsfor: BankofJapan,249–50
balanceofgoodsandservices,266 BritishPound(GBP),236
consumerpriceindex(CPI),266 EuropeanCentralBank(ECB),
grossdomesticproduct(GDP),266 227–8
NewZealandDollar(NZD),266–7 ReserveBankofAustralia(RBA),
privateconsumption,266 256–7
producerpriceindex(PPI),266–7 SwissNationalBank,243
NewZealandDollar(NZD): Optionvolatilitiestotimemarket
broadeconomicoverview,260–261 movements,191–5
importantcharacteristicsofNew about,191–2
ZealandDollar,263–6 rules,192
importanteconomicindicatorsfor rules,benefitsfrom,194
theNewZealand,266–7 rules,workingsof,192–3
leadingexportmarkets,261 volatilitytracking,194–5
leadingimportmarkets,261 Options,13,15–16
monetaryandfiscalpolicy-Bankof Options(riskreversals),102
NewZealand,261–3 Orderflow,115
NewZealanddollars,87–9 OrganizationforEconomic
Newsreleasetrading: CooperationandDevelopment
about,139–41 (OECD),260
examplesof,142–50 OrganizationofPetroleumExporting
strategyrulesforproactiveand Countries(OPEC),24
reactivetrading,146–7
strategyrulesforproactivetrading, Parabolicstopandreversal(SAR)
141–2 method,106–7
strategyrulesforreactivetrading, Perfectorder:
144–5 about,138–9
technicaltradingstrategies, examplesof,139–40
139–50 rulesfor,139
Nextbestordersystem,8 PhiladelphiaStockExchange,15
NikkeiandU.S.Dollar,2–3 thePhilippines,29
Nixon,Richard,22–3 Physicalflows,39–40

P1:JYS
ind JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 19:45 Printer:Yettocome
286 INDEX
Pickingthestrongestpairing,165–8 Rangetrading,109,209
Placingmethods,106–7 ADX(AverageDirectionalIndex)
PlayersintheFXmarket: lessthan20,99–100
about,16–17 decreasingimpliedvolatility,100
centralizedmarkets,17–18 riskreversalidentification,101
dealingstationsininterbankmarket, riskreversalsflippingbetweencalls
19 andputs,100–101
hierarchyofparticipantsin tradingenvironmentprofile,99–104
decentralizedmarket,18–19 Reagan,Ronald,24
PlazaAccord,24–7 Realinterestratedifferentialmodel,
Poland,35 53–4
Politicaluncertainty,178–9 about,53–4
Population,265 limitationsof,54
Populationmigration,265 Real-time,streamingprices,13
Portfolioflows: Real-time,two-wayquotes,7–8
capitalandtradeflows,40 RelativeStrengthIndex(RSI),93,102
equitymarkets,40 Reporate,238
fixedincomemarkets,40 Reporate(ECBminimumbidrate),
Portugal,33 228
Positive/negativecorrelations,76–7 Repotransactions,243,250
Potentialchangesinbanking ReserveBankBulletin(RBA),
regulations,245 257
PreliminaryGDP,230–231 Resistanceintrends,45
Privateconsumption: Retailpriceindex(RPI),240
Australia,260 Retailpriceindex(RPIX),235
NewZealand,266 Retailsales,247
Producerpriceindex(PPI),10 RetailSalesIndex,224
Australia,260 Reuters,18
Canada,272 Riskaversion,173–4
NewZealand,266–7 Risklevels,172
UnitedStates,222–3 Riskmanagement,104–7
Productionindex(industrial about,104–7
production),247 risk-rewardratio,105
Psychologicaloutlook,107–8 stop-lossorders,105–7
PurchasingManagersIndex(PMI),240 Riskreversals,189–91
Purchasingpowerparity(PPP)theory, described,100–101
49–51 examplesof,190–101
Purchasingpowerparitytheory: identifying,101,189
basketofgoods,50 useof,189–90
BigMacindex,50 Risk-rewardratio,105
OECDPurchasingPowerParity Roundnumbers,115
Index,50–51 Rules:
intradayrangetrade,103
Quantumhedgefund,28 medium-termbreakouttrade,104
QuarterlyBulletin(MPC),236 medium-termrangetrade,103
QuarterlyBulletin(SNB),242 medium-termtrendtrade,104

P1:JYS
ind JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 19:45 Printer:Yettocome
Index 287
Safehavens,219,241,243–4 Stochastics,102
Schlossberg,Boris,214 Stockandbondmarketimpacts,221–2
Seasonality,81–90 Stocksandbonds,effectsof
about,81–2 currencieson,1–3
incorporatingintotrading,89–90 Stocksvs.countries,8–10
inJanuary,82–5 Stop-lossorders,115–16
inMay,87–8 about,105–6
inNovember,89 tomanagerisk,106
inSeptember,88 parabolicstopandreversal(SAR)
insummer,85–7 method,106–7
Self-reflection,213–14 placingmethods,106–7
Septemberseasonality,88 two-daylowmethod,106
Sevenday(plus)moves,162–4 Strategyrules:
Short-termmarketmoves: faders,129–30
benefittingfromknowledgeof,63–5 fadingthedoublezeros,116–17
economicdatachangeswithtime, filteringfalsebreakouts,132–3
62–3 high-probabilityturnstrategy,157–9
economicreleases,59–62 insidebreakoutplan,125
grossdomesticproduct(GDP),63 forproactiveandreactivetrading,
market-movingindicatorsforU.S. 146–7
dollar,61–2 forproactivetrading,141–2
Short-termmomentumstrategy forreactivetrading,144–5
(20-100),150–155 short-termmomentumstrategy
about,150–151 (20-100),151
examplesof,151–5 waitingforrealdeal,121–4
strategyrules,151 Strongdollarpolicy,218
Simplemovingaverages(SMAs),93, Summerseasonality,85–7
102,136 Sweden,33
Singapore,67 SwissFranc:
Single-entry,multipleexitsstrategy, currencyprofilesandunique
210 characteristics,241–7
Single-entry,singleexitstrategy,210 leadingexportmarkets,241
Sixdaymoves,162 leadingimportmarkets,241–2
Slippage,7–8 MonetaryandFiscalPolicyMakers,
SmithsonianAgreement,22–4 242
Soros,George,3,27–9 SwissNationalBank,242–3
SouthKorea,29 SwissFranc,importantcharacteristics
Spain,33 of,243–7
Specialists,16 carrytradeseffects,244
Speculation,237–8 correlationwithgold,244
Speculativepositions,251 interestratedifferentials,244–5
Spot,13–14 mergerandacquisitionactivity.,
Spreads,11 245
Stagflation,24 potentialchangesinbanking
Steinhardt,Michael,43 regulations.,245
SterlingseeBritishPound(GBP): safehavenstatus,243–4

P1:JYS
ind JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 19:45 Printer:Yettocome
288 INDEX
SwissFranc,importantcharacteristics short-termmomentumstrategy
of(cont.) (20-100),150–155
tradingbehavior,cross-currency waitingforrealdeal,120–124
characteristics.,245 Testdrive(back-testing),211–12
SwissFranc,importanteconomic Thailand,29,31
indicatorsfor: Timeframeselection,209–10
balanceofpayments,247 Timehorizon,176
consumerpriceindex(CPI),246 Tokyo,67
grossdomesticproduct(GDP), Toolbox,98–9
246–7 Toppicking,155–6
KoF(Konjunkturforschungsstelle Tradebalances,175–6
dereth,Zurich)Leading Tradedeficit,42
Indicators,246 Tradeflowbalance,48
productionindex(industrial Tradeflows,241
production),247 balanceofpaymentstheory,47
retailsales,247 capitalandtradeflows,41–2
SwissLIBORrate,243 Tradeparameters,93
SwissNationalBank(SNB),242 Tradeparametersfordifferentmarket
centralbank’sgoals,242–3 conditions,91–108
centralbank’stools,243 Tradeswaitingforlist,95–6
MonetaryandFiscalPolicyMakers, TradeStation(commercialsoftware),
242–3 211
OpenMarketOperations,243 Tradingbehavior,cross-currency
SwissFranc,242–3 characteristics,245
TargetInterestRateRange,243 Tradingcurbsoruptickrules,FXvs.
Syntheticcurrencies,19 equities,7
Tradingenvironmentprofile:
TankanSurvey,253 rangetrading,99–104
TargetInterestRateRange,243 trendtrading,101–2
TechbubbleinUnitedStates,41 Tradingerrorrates:
Technicalanalysis: FXvs.equities,7
about,44–5 FXvs.futures,12–13
vs.fundamentalanalysis,45 Tradingexamples:
FXvs.equities,8 channelstrategy,136–8
Technicalanalysistools,45 faders,130–132
Technicaltradingstrategies: fadingthedoublezeros,117–20
channelstrategy,135–8 filteringfalsebreakouts,133–5
faders,129–32 high-probabilityturnstrategy,
fadingthedoublezeros,115–20 159–61
filteringfalsebreakouts,132–5 insidebreakoutplan,126–9
high-probabilityturnstrategy, newsreleasetrading,142–50
155–64 perfectorder,139–40
insidebreakoutplan,124–9 short-termmomentumstrategy
multipletimeframeanalysis,109–15 (20-100),151–5
newsreleasetrading,139–50 waitingforrealdeal,121–4
perfectorder,138–40 Tradinghigh(emotion),140

P1:JYS
ind JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 19:45 Printer:Yettocome
Index 289
Tradinghours: Trends,45
Asiansession(Tokyo),67–9 Triplezerolevels,119
Europeansession(London),71–3 24-hourMarket,5–6
U.S.session(NewYork),70–71 Two-daylowmethod,106
U.S.-Asianoverlap,74
U.S.-Europeanoverlap,74 U.K.housingstarts,240
Tradingjournal: Understandingdrawdown,212–13
currencypairchecklist,92–5 Understandingperformance,212
existingorcompletedtrades,96–8 Unemployment,271
tradeparametersfordifferent UniquerisksofEuro(EUR),229–30
marketconditions,91–8 UnitedKingdom,33
tradeswaitingforlist,95–6 Euroadoptionarguments,235
Tradingopportunity,184–5 fiveeconomictestsfortheEuro,
Tradingrules,108 234–5
Tradingstrategy,110,208–10 politicians’impactonEuro,238–9
Tradingstrategydevelopment,207 tradingvolumesof,120
Tradingstrategyfamiliarity: UnitedKingdom,importanteconomic
understandingdrawdown,212–13 indicatorsfor:
understandingperformance,212 BritishPound(GBP),239–41
Tradingtimehorizondetermination: employmentsituation,239–40
about,102 GrossDomesticProduct(GDP),240
intradayrangetrade,103 industrialproduction(IP),240
medium-termbreakouttrade,104 PurchasingManagersIndex(PMI),
medium-termrangetrade,103 240
medium-termtrendtrade,103–4 retailpriceindex(RPI),240
Tradingvolumes: U.K.housingstarts,240
ofEuropeancurrencies,120 UnitedKingdomjoinsExchangeRate
ofSwitzerland,120 Mechanism,27–8
ofUnitedStates,120 UnitedStates:
Trailingstops,118 consumerpriceindex(CPI),222
Transactioncosts: importanteconomicindicatorsfor,
FXvs.equities,6 222–4
FXvs.futures,11–12 InstituteforSupplyManagement
TreasuriesandFXbonds,221 (ISM)(FormerlyNAPM),223
TreasuryInternationalCapitalFlow techbubblein,41
Data(TICData),224 tradingvolumesof,120
Treasuryinternationalcapitalflow U.SDollarIndex,221
(TIC),38–9 U.S.dollarstrength,216
Trendfollowing,209 U.S.Dollar(USD):
Trendtrading,109 broadeconomicoverview,215–17
ADX(AverageDirectionalIndex) currencydealusage,219
lessthan20,102 DollarIndex,221
momentumconsistentwithtrend andemergingmarkets,220
direction,102 importantcharacteristicsof,219–22
options(riskreversals),102 interestratedifferentials,220–221
tradingenvironmentprofile,101–2 leadingexportmarkets,217

P1:JYS
ind JWBK299-Lein September15,2008 19:45 Printer:Yettocome
290 INDEX
U.S.Dollar(USD)(cont.) U.S.-Asianoverlap,74
leadingimportmarkets,217 U.S.-Europeanoverlap,74
market-movingindicatorsfor,
61–2 Valueofmultipletimeframeanalysis,
monetaryandfiscalpolicymakers- 113,115
TheFederalReserve,217–18 Variantperception,43
relationshipwithgold,219 Volatilitytracking,194–5
assafehaven,219 Volcker,Paul,24
stockandbondmarketimpacts,
221–2 Waitingforrealdeal,120–124
TreasuriesandFXbonds,221 about,120–121
U.S.FederalReserve(FED),10 examplesof,121–4
U.S.non-farmpayrollreleases, strategyrules,121–4
60 Wars,179–80
U.S.session(NewYork), Weekendpositions,209–10
70–71 WorldBank,22
U.S.Treasury,218
U.S.WarinIraq,179–80 Yenexample,56–7

$70.00 USA/$77.00 CAN
SECOND EDITION
DAY TRADING & SWING TRADING the CURRENCY MARKET
goes far beyond what other currency trading books
cover. It delves into consistently critical questions such SECOND EDITION
as “What Are the Most Market-Moving Indicators for the Praise for the First Edition
I
U.S. Dollar” and “What Are Currency Correlations and “I thought this was one of the best books that I had read on FX. The book should (cid:59)(cid:56)(cid:80)(cid:23)(cid:75)(cid:73)(cid:56)(cid:59)(cid:64)(cid:69)(cid:62)(cid:23)(cid:29) n only a few short years, the currency/foreign ex-
How to Use Them,” while touching on topics like “How change (FX) market has grown signifi cantly. With
be required reading not only for traders new to the foreign exchange markets,
to Trade like a Hedge Fund Manager” and “The Impact institutions and individuals driving daily average
but also for seasoned professionals. I’ll defi nitely be keeping it on my desk for
of Seasonality in the Currency Market” that could give volume past the $3 trillion mark, there are many profi t-
reference. The book is very readable and very educational. In fact, I wish that
you a distinct edge in this competitive arena. able opportunities available in this arena—but only if
Kathy’s book had been around when I had fi rst started out in FX. It would have
you understand how to operate within it.
saved me from a lot of heartache from reading duller books, and would have (cid:74)(cid:78)(cid:64)(cid:69)(cid:62)(cid:23)(cid:75)(cid:73)(cid:56)(cid:59)(cid:64)(cid:69)(cid:62)
Filled with proven trading strategies as well as detailed
saved me a lot of time from having to learn things the hard way. I look forward to
statistical analysis, the Second Edition of Day Trad- That’s why Kathy Lien—Director of Currency Re-
reading other books from her in the future.” ing and Swing Trading the Currency Market will help search for one of the most popular Forex providers in
—Farooq Muzammal, Head of Foreign Exchange, MAREX Capital
you achieve unparalleled success in the most actively the world—has created Day Trading and Swing Trad-
traded market in the world. ing the Currency Market, Second Edition. Written for
(cid:107)(cid:95)(cid:92)(cid:23)(cid:58)(cid:76)(cid:73)(cid:73)(cid:60)(cid:69)(cid:58)(cid:80) “Kathy’s book is an indispensable tool for Forex traders, whether you are a pro-
both the experienced and aspiring trader, this updated
KATHY LIEN is the Director of fessional or novice. It not only lays the groundwork for an in-depth understanding guide outlines the essential elements of the FX market
Currency Research at Global Forex of Forex trading, it also contains numerous fundamental and technical strategies and reveals the latest trends, data, and strategies that
Trading, Division of Global Futures . . . . I suspect that many traders will be keeping Kathy’s book within arm’s reach all traders, particularly day and swing traders, need to
& Forex, Ltd. She is responsible for for many years to come.” (cid:68)(cid:56)(cid:73)(cid:66)(cid:60)(cid:75) be aware of in order to excel in this fast-moving fi eld.
providing research and analysis, in- —Eddie Kwong, Executive VP/Editor in Chief, Tradingmarkets.com
cluding technical and fundamental After an engaging introduction to how the foreign ex-
research reports, market commen- “In Day Trading the Currency Market, Kathy Lien provides traders with unique, change market has evolved over the last few years and
taries, and trading strategies. Prior thoughtful, and profi table insight on trading this exciting market. This book a look at some of its historical milestones, this book
to joining GFT, Lien was the chief strategist of DailyFX. should be required reading for all traders, whether they are novices to Forex or (cid:58)(cid:102)(cid:100)(cid:103)(cid:99)(cid:92)(cid:107)(cid:92)(cid:99)(cid:112) quickly moves on to address the innovative trading
com and an associate at JPMorgan Chase, where experienced professionals.” insights that will enhance your profi tability within
(cid:73)(cid:92)(cid:109)(cid:96)(cid:106)(cid:92)(cid:91)(cid:23)(cid:29)
she worked in cross-markets and foreign exchange —Cory Janssen, cofounder, Investopedia.com today’s FX market. Page by page, you’ll become
(cid:76)(cid:103)(cid:91)(cid:88)(cid:107)(cid:92)(cid:91)
trading. She has vast experience within the interbank familiar with:
market using both technical and fundamental analysis “There are aspects to trading currencies that are different from trading equities,
to trade FX spot and options. She also has experience options, or futures. In this book, Kathy Lien provides deep insight into all the • New technical trading strategies, which include how
trading a number of products outside of FX, includ- mechanisms that take place in the currency markets. Any currency trader will to trade news, effectively time market turns, and
ing interest rate derivatives, bonds, equities, and fu- gain more confi dence in their trading after reading this book.” capture new shifts in momentum
tures. Lien has written for Active Trader, Futures, and —Jayanthi Gopalakrishnan, Editor, • Proven fundamental trading strategies, which involve
SFO magazines and is frequently quoted on CNBC, Technical Analysis of Stocks & Commodities trading off commodity prices, fi xed income instru-
Bloomberg, Fox Business, and Reuters. She is also ments, and option volatilities; as well as intervention-
the author of the fi rst edition of Day Trading the Cur- “Kathy has done a brilliant job with this book. She speaks directly to traders based trades and macro event-driven trades
rency Market as well as Millionaire Traders, both of and gives them guidance to improve their performance as Forex traders. I took • The unique characteristics of each major currency
which are published by Wiley. some notes and ideas from the book myself that are going to be very useful for pair—from when they are most active to what drives
my business.” their price action
Jacket Design: Loretta Leiva —Francesc Riverola, CEO and founder, FXstreet.com • Trading through different market conditions, by fi rst
Jacket Photograph: © Getty Images
profi ling a trading environment and then applying
(cid:75)(cid:92)(cid:90)(cid:95)(cid:101)(cid:96)(cid:90)(cid:88)(cid:99)(cid:23)(cid:88)(cid:101)(cid:91)(cid:23)(cid:61)(cid:108)(cid:101)(cid:91)(cid:88)(cid:100)(cid:92)(cid:101)(cid:107)(cid:88)(cid:99)(cid:23)(cid:74)(cid:107)(cid:105)(cid:88)(cid:107)(cid:92)(cid:94)(cid:96)(cid:92)(cid:106) specifi c indicators for that environment
• And much more
(cid:107)(cid:102)(cid:23)(cid:71)(cid:105)(cid:102)(cid:93)(cid:96)(cid:107)(cid:23)(cid:93)(cid:105)(cid:102)(cid:100)(cid:23)(cid:68)(cid:88)(cid:105)(cid:98)(cid:92)(cid:107)(cid:23)(cid:68)(cid:102)(cid:109)(cid:92)(cid:106)
Both informative and accessible, the Second Edition of
(cid:66)(cid:56)(cid:75)(cid:63)(cid:80)(cid:23)(cid:67)(cid:64)(cid:60)(cid:69)
Day Trading and Swing Trading the Currency Market
Director of Currency Research at GFT
EAN: 9780470377369 ISBN 978-0-470-37736-9
Technical
and
Fundamental
Strategies
to
Profit
from
Market
Moves
DAY
TRADING
&
SWING
TRADING
the
CURRENCY
MARKET
(continued from front flap) LIEN
(continued on back flap)

