

ffffiirrss..iinndddd vvii 11//1133//0099 1100::1133::2255 AAMM

ESSENTIALS
of Foreign
Exchange
Trading
ffffiirrss..iinndddd ii 11//1133//0099 1100::1133::2233 AAMM

ESSENTIALS SERIES
The Essentials Series was created for busy business advisory and corporate professionals. The
books in this series were designed so that these busy professionals can quickly acquire knowl-
edge and skills in core business areas.
Each book provides need-to-have fundamentals for those professionals who must:
(cid:127) Get up to speed quickly, because they have been promoted to a new position or
have broadened their responsibility scope
(cid:127) Manage a new functional area
(cid:127) Brush up on new developments in their area of responsibility
(cid:127) Add more value to their company or clients
Other books in this series include:
Essentials of Accounts Payable, Mary S. Schaeffer
Essentials of Balanced Scorecard, Mohan Nair
Essentials of Capacity Management, Reginald Tomas Yu-Lee
Essentials of Capital Budgeting, James Sagner
Essentials of Cash Flow, H.A. Schaeffer Jr.
Essentials of Corporate Governance, Sanjay Anand
Essentials of Corporate Performance Measurement, George T. Friedlob, Lydia L.F. Schleifer, and
Franklin J. Plewa Jr.
Essentials of Cost Management, Joe and Catherine Stenzel
Essentials of Credit, Collections, and Accounts Receivable, Mary S. Schaeffer
Essentials of CRM: A Guide to Customer Relationship Management, Bryan Bergeron
Essentials of Financial Analysis, George T. Friedlob and Lydia L. F. Schleifer
Essentials of Financial Risk Management, Karen A. Horcher
Essentials of Intellectual Property, Paul J. Lerner and Alexander I. Poltorak
Essentials of Knowledge Management, Bryan Bergeron
Essentials of Patents, Andy Gibbs and Bob DeMatteis
Essentials of Payroll Management and Accounting, Steven M. Bragg
Essentials of Sarbanes-Oxley, Sanjay Anand
Essentials of Shared Services, Bryan Bergeron
Essentials of Supply Chain Management, Michael Hugos
Essentials of Trademarks and Unfair Competition, Dana Shilling
Essentials of Treasury, Karen A. Horcher
Essentials of Managing Corporate Cash, Michele Allman-Ward and James Sagner
Essentials of XBRL, Bryan Bergeron
For more information on any of the above titles, please visit www.wiley.com
ffffiirrss..iinndddd iiii 11//1133//0099 1100::1133::2244 AAMM

ESSENTIALS
of Foreign
Exchange
Trading
James Chen
John Wiley & Sons, Inc.
ffffiirrss..iinndddd iiiiii 11//1133//0099 1100::1133::2244 AAMM

Copyright © 2009 by James Chen. All rights reserved.
Published by John Wiley & Sons, Inc., Hoboken, New Jersey.
Published simultaneously in Canada.
No part of this publication may be reproduced, stored in a retrieval system, or transmitted in any form
or by any means, electronic, mechanical, photocopying, recording, scanning, or otherwise, except as
permitted under Section 107 or 108 of the 1976 United States Copyright Act, without either the
prior written permission of the Publisher, or authorization through payment of the appropriate
per-copy fee to the Copyright Clearance Center, Inc., 222 Rosewood Drive, Danvers, MA 01923,
978-750-8400, fax 978-646-8600, or on the Web at www.copyright.com. Requests to the Publisher
for permission should be addressed to the Permissions Department, John Wiley & Sons, Inc., 111
River Street, Hoboken, NJ 07030, 201-748-6011, fax 201-748-6008, or online at http://www.wiley
.com/go/permissions.
Limit of Liability/Disclaimer of Warranty: While the publisher and author have used their best efforts
in preparing this book, they make no representations or warranties with respect to the accuracy
or completeness of the contents of this book and specifi cally disclaim any implied warranties of
merchantability or fi tness for a particular purpose. No warranty may be created or extended by sales
representatives or written sales materials. The advice and strategies contained herein may not be
suitable for your situation. You should consult with a professional where appropriate. Neither the
publisher nor author shall be liable for any loss of profi t or any other commercial damages, including
but not limited to special, incidental, consequential, or other damages.
For general information on our other products and services, or technical support, please contact our
Customer Care Department within the United States at 800-762-2974, outside the United States at
317-572-3993 or fax 317-572-4002.
Wiley also publishes its books in a variety of electronic formats. Some content that appears in print
may not be available in electronic books.
For more information about Wiley products, visit our Web site at http://www.wiley.com.
Library of Congress Cataloging-in-Publication Data:
Chen, James.
Essentials of foreign exchange trading / James Chen.
p. cm. — (Essentials series)
Includes index.
ISBN 978-0-470-39086-3 (pbk.)
1. Foreign exchange market. 2. Foreign exchange futures. 3. Investments. I. Title. II. Series.
HG3851.C437 2009
332.4'5—dc22
2008048193
Printed in the United States of America
10 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1
ffffiirrss..iinndddd iivv 11//1133//0099 1100::1133::2244 AAMM

To my parents, my wife,
my children, and forex
traders everywhere.
ffffiirrss..iinndddd vv 11//1133//0099 1100::1133::2244 AAMM

ffffiirrss..iinndddd vvii 11//1133//0099 1100::1133::2255 AAMM

Contents
Preface xi
Acknowledgments xv
Chapter 1 Introduction to Foreign Exchange Trading 1
Trading Money to Make Money 2
Striking Gold 3
Buying and Selling at Retail 4
Big and Liquid, Like the Ocean 5
Open 24/5 7
Playing in the Majors 9
Leveraged to the Hilt 12
The Players 13
What Moves the Forex Markets? 15
What to Expect from This Book 17
Chapter Summary 19
Chapter 2 Basic Foreign Exchange Trading Mechanics 21
Anatomy of a Currency Pair 22
Going Long and Selling Short 24
Market Orders—On the Spot 27
Entry Orders—Waiting until the Price Is Right 27
Stopping Losses with Stop Losses and Trailing Stops 28
vii
ffttoocc..iinndddd vviiii 11//1133//0099 1100::1166::3399 AAMM

Contents
Profi t Limits—When You’re in the Money 31
Exit with Caution 31
Trade Size—Lots and Lots of Lots 32
Leveraging Margin and Leverage 33
Margin Call—Insuffi cient Funds 34
Pips—The Currency of Currency Trading 37
Spreading the Wealth—Spreads or Commissions? 39
Interest—Giving and Receiving 41
Hedging—Two Sides of the Same Coin 44
Chapter Summary 45
Chapter 3 Technical Analysis—Tools for Trading Foreign Exchange 49
Introduction to Technical Analysis—
Interpreting Price Action 50
Basics of Bars and Candlesticks 52
Keeping Time with Chart Timeframes 57
Support for Resistance (and Support) 59
The Trend Will Set You Free 64
How Trendy—Lines and Channels 67
The Magic of Moving Averages 72
Seeing Patterns in the Candles 78
Currency Charts Take Shape 82
Indicators of Change 88
Pointing the Way with Pivot Points 95
Fibonacci’s Magic Numbers 96
Riding the Elliott Wave 98
Getting to the Point & Figure 99
Chapter Summary 100
viii
ffttoocc..iinndddd vviiiiii 11//1133//0099 1100::1166::3399 AAMM

Contents
Chapter 4 Fundamental Analysis—What Drives the
Foreign Exchange Markets 103
Introduction to Fundamental Analysis—Basic Economics 104
A Healthy Interest in Global Bank Rates 105
Carried Away with Trading 108
Indication of Things to Come—Economic Indicators 110
No News Is Bad News for News Traders 121
Chapter Summary 124
Chapter 5 Foreign Exchange Trading Methods and Strategies 127
Rules to Trade By 128
Position Trading—Settling in for the Long Term 130
Swing Trading—Riding the Waves 134
Day Trading—In and Out, Day In and Day Out 137
Trend Trading—Going with the Flow 140
Range Trading—Between a Rock and a Hard Place 147
Breakout Trading (and Fading)—Shooting for the Stars 150
Pattern Trading—Playing with Shapes 158
Fibonacci and Pivot Point Trading—Magic Numbers and
Self-Fulfi lling Prophecies 161
Elliott Wave Trading—Two Steps Forward, One Step Back 166
Divergence Trading—Separate Paths 170
Multiple Timeframe Trading—Timing Is Everything 172
Point & Figure Trading—Pointing Out Breakouts 175
Carry Trading—In the Interest of Interest 179
News Trading—All the News That’s Fit to Profi t From 183
Contrarian Trading—The Majority Doesn’t Rule 184
Backtesting—History Repeats Itself 187
ix
ffttoocc..iinndddd iixx 11//1133//0099 1100::1166::3399 AAMM

Contents
Autotrading—Robots for Hire 190
Chapter Summary 192
Chapter 6 Important Elements of Successful Foreign
Exchange Trading 195
The Boring Side of Success 196
A Risky Business 196
Fatter Is Healthier (But Only for Trading Accounts) 197
Risk and Reward 198
Fix Your Fractions 200
Trailing Stops—Loyal Followers 201
Size Matters 202
Position Overload 205
Measuring Risk with a Trendline 208
Great Expectations 209
Psychologically Speaking 210
Plan the Trade and Trade the Plan 214
Chapter Summary 216
Index 219
x
ffttoocc..iinndddd xx 11//1133//0099 1100::1166::3399 AAMM

Preface
F
oreign exchange trading has developed at such a blinding
speed within the last decade that is has garnered an unprec-
edented amount of interest from all corners of the globe. The
meteoric rise of forex can be attributed to the many advantages of
trading currencies over other fi nancial markets. These advantages
will all be discussed within the pages of this book.
More important than recognizing how forex trading can work
to your benefi t, however, is knowing exactly how to approach this
fascinating market with the proper prudence, attitude, and method-
ology to achieve consistent profi tability. Only in this way can the
advantages of forex trading truly be realized. This book will assist
you in learning many of the most important aspects of playing the
currency game effectively.
I personally began my journey in forex trading when the retail
foreign exchange industry was still in its early infancy. Before I ever
even looked at a price chart of a currency pair or followed a forex
news feed, I placed a live trade on the EUR/USD with real money.
When a substantial sum was lost on that fi rst trade, I placed another
trade. And then another. And yet another. Admittedly, I kept doing
xxii
ffpprreeff..iinndddd xxii 11//1133//0099 1100::1155::4411 AAMM

Preface
this until I lost almost every single penny in my trading account.
I had absolutely no rational reason or justifi cation to place any of
those fi rst several trades in that initial trading account. To me, at that
time, forex was purely a game of instinct and gut feel.
Needless to say, those early days taught me a good lesson. Most
humans are not instinctively good at trading. For the vast majority
of us, guts and instinct left unchecked invariably lead to catastrophic
losses at some point in time, usually sooner rather than later. On
attaining this realization, I began a tireless quest to become a profi t-
able forex trader. My efforts consisted of a prolonged, single - minded
endeavor to absorb forex - specifi c analytical methodologies, highly
touted currency trading strategies, and sound money management
techniques. My search for the “ holy grail” of foreign exchange trad-
ing had begun in earnest.
Over time, I realized that this holy grail of forex, in the tradi-
tional sense, was not only elusive but most likely nonexistent. I came
to the conclusion that although a bunch of chart indicators all fl ash-
ing the same signal at the same exact time to enter into a currency
trade is a very nice thing to see, it probably would not by itself be
able to feed a typical family on a consistent basis. The true holy grail,
I eventually found, is a combination of good analytical and trading
technique, great risk/money management, and phenomenal dis-
cipline. Without these vital components, consistent profi tability in
forex trading would be diffi cult to achieve.
This is where the book you are holding comes in. It is not
meant to be an exhaustive tome that covers every detailed aspect of
the foreign exchange world. Rather, this book is meant to serve as
a practical guide to help you develop some of the most important
xii
ffpprreeff..iinndddd xxiiii 11//1133//0099 1100::1155::4411 AAMM

Preface
tools and attributes necessary for approaching forex trading in an
intelligent and well - prepared manner. Essentials of Foreign Exchange
Trading is the kind of book that I wish I had read during the earlier
years of my forex trading career.
But even now, after many years of trading this market and analyz-
ing foreign exchange price movements for countless traders around the
globe on behalf of FX Solutions, I occasionally fi nd myself neglecting
some of the essential concepts of good forex trading. Therefore, I have
included all of these key concepts within the pages of this book—
writing them down in this manner has helped me to refocus on what
is truly important in one ’s quest for profi tability in this market.
In short, this book is highly relevant for all who strive to increase
their probability of achieving success in forex trading.
Once you have read through and digested this book, I would
be happy to receive any comments and/or questions you may have.
Learning to trade foreign exchange is most certainly a pursuit
best accomplished by interacting with other forex traders. In that
spirit, you can reach me at anytime simply by e - mailing a uthor@
fxtradingbook.com . I welcome your thoughts.
James Chen
xiii
ffpprreeff..iinndddd xxiiiiii 11//1133//0099 1100::1155::4422 AAMM

ffpprreeff..iinndddd xxiivv 11//1133//0099 1100::1155::4422 AAMM

Acknowledgments
F
irst and foremost, I would like to give special thanks to my
parents, Shou Lien and Hsiao - wen; my wife, Dongping;
and my sons, Tommy and Kevin. Your tireless love, support, and
encouragement both in life and throughout the entire frenzied writ-
ing process have truly been priceless.
I would also like to acknowledge my many colleagues at FX
Solutions who have consistently shown tremendous interest and sup-
port during the course of my writing this book.
In addition, I would like to thank the wonderful editors at John
Wiley & Sons for having demonstrated a great deal of confi dence in
this book project and in me as its author.
And very importantly, I would like to give a special acknowledg-
ment to all of the forex traders around the world who have made
foreign exchange trading what it is today. Without you, this book
would not be possible.
xv
ffllaasstt..iinndddd xxvv 11//1133//0099 1100::1144::3300 AAMM

ffllaasstt..iinndddd xxvvii 11//1133//0099 1100::1144::3300 AAMM

CHAPTER 1
I ntroduction to
Foreign Exchange
Trading
After reading this chapter, you will be
able to:
● Understand the basic facts and history of the global
foreign exchange market .
● Appreciate the characteristics that set forex apart from
other fi nancial markets .
● Assess who the real market players are, and how they
may affect currency prices .
● Decide whether foreign exchange trading is right
for you .
● Know what to expect from this book .
1
cc0011..iinndddd 11 11//1133//0099 99::5511::5566 AAMM

Introduction to Foreign Exchange Trading
T
rading Money to Make Money
Foreign exchange trading is essentially about trading money. There
are several reasons why people and institutions would want to trade
money. The two primary reasons are currency conversion and spec-
ulation. Currency conversion is simply the changing of money from
one currency to another for the primary purpose of purchasing
goods, services, or assets from a foreign country. For an American
company to buy British goods, for example, would necessitate the
conversion of U.S. dollars to British pounds.
This book will focus exclusively on foreign exchange trading for
speculative purposes, or trading money with the explicit goal of mak-
ing money. This speculation process is very similar to trading in stocks
or futures. The goal, whether on a long- t erm or short- t erm basis, is
to earn profi ts from price changes. Just as a stock like Microsoft will
move up and down in price, currencies will also move up and down
in price. The real trick is to be on the right side of the move, and to
reap profi ts in return for assuming the risk of taking the trade.
Of course, there are many important ways in which trading for-
eign exchange is completely different from trading stocks or futures,
but the primary objective is the same. If a trader buys shares in
Microsoft, for instance, the hope is that the value of the shares will
go up and the trader will earn profi ts. In the same vein, if a trader
buys the Japanese yen, the hope is that the value of the yen increases
so that the trader will earn a profi t on owning that currency.
Learning how to make money by trading money is not an easy
task. There are many factors that combine to make any given foreign
exchange trader a successful one. This combination usually includes
2
cc0011..iinndddd 22 11//1133//0099 99::5511::5588 AAMM

Striking Gold
plenty of often painful trading experience, good risk management
skills, solid technical and fundamental analytical abilities, and a sound
psychological make - up. All of these will be discussed in detail fur-
ther along in the book.
To begin with, though, an introduction to the world of foreign
exchange trading is in order. This will cover all of the basics, and will
begin with a very brief history lesson.
S
triking Gold
Although money in one form or another has been around pretty
much since the beginning of time, modern speculative foreign
exchange trading (also known as “ FX, ” “ forex, ” or “ currency trad-
ing ” ) is considered to have begun on a major scale relatively recently.
In modern times, the world ’s currencies truly began to fl oat freely
and be traded extensively in the early 1970s, after the collapse of the
Bretton Woods Agreements.
These agreements, established during the tail - end of World
War II in July 1944, came about as a result of meetings between
representa tives of all the Allied nations in Bretton Woods, New
Hampshire, U.S.A.
Among other accomplishments resulting from Bretton Woods,
each of these nations agreed to adopt a monetary policy that would
effectively fi x the exchange rate of its currency in relation to the
U.S. dollar, which in turn would be fi xed to gold at a rate of USD
$ 35.00 per ounce of gold. These changes were akin to reinstat-
ing characteristics of the Gold Standard, but this time via the U.S.
dollar.
3
cc0011..iinndddd 33 11//1133//0099 99::5511::5588 AAMM

Introduction to Foreign Exchange Trading
Clearly, with the Bretton Woods Agreements in place, foreign
exchange trading on any signifi cant scale was virtually impossible
and nonproductive due to the nonfl oating nature of currency val-
ues. While the valiant purposes of Bretton Woods were to control
confl ict, maintain monetary stability, and discourage currency spec-
ulation, the agreements underwent increasing pressure as the U.S.
suspended the dollar ’s convertibility into gold in 1971. The Bretton
Woods Agreements fi nally collapsed in the same year.
By 1973, with the complete collapse of Bretton Woods and
other similar agreements that strived to impose order on the glo-
bal currency system, the world ’s currencies truly began to fl oat
much more freely. This meant that the market forces of supply and
demand would take precedence over international political consen-
sus, and that mass speculation by banks and institutions would soon
become rampant. Although most individual traders could not take
part in the new market, this time period marked the birth of mod-
ern - day forex trading as we know it today.
B
uying and Selling at Retail
Fast forward to around 1996, as computers and the Internet began
making online fi nancial trading both practical and in demand.
With stock trading starting to go online, foreign exchange brokers/
market - makers began emerging to create and satisfy a new demand
for retail forex trading. Prior to this time, access to speculative forex
trading was reserved almost exclusively for banks and large institu-
tions. With the advent of online platform trading, however, access
for the average individual trader/investor opened up in a major way.
4
cc0011..iinndddd 44 11//1133//0099 99::5511::5588 AAMM

Big and Liquid, Like the Ocean
This new frontier of retail currency trading was in the arena of
“ spot forex, ” which was clearly differentiated from futures and for-
wards. Spot foreign exchange trading is distinguished by its almost
immediate delivery of the currency, rather than future delivery. Of
course, in speculative currency trading, the actual physical currency
never gets delivered — delivery is simply “ rolled over ” continuously to
the next delivery date ad infi nitum (or until the trading position is
closed). The foreign exchange broker performs this important func-
tion in order to facilitate speculative trading, as opposed to having
customers actually convert money to/from a foreign currency. In spot
forex, the customary delivery settlement timeframe for most currency
trades is the date of trade execution plus two days (T+2).
B
ig and Liquid, Like the Ocean
There are many characteristics that set the modern - day foreign
exchange market apart from other fi nancial markets like equities
(stocks) and futures. Many of these characteristics help to make for-
eign exchange an appealing market for traders and investors coming
from other fi nancial markets.
When most people fi rst hear about the foreign exchange market,
they are usually introduced fi rst to the sheer size of the global forex
system. Along with this size comes a magnitude of liquidity almost
unimaginable in any other fi nancial market. Liquidity is defi ned sim-
ply as the degree to which an asset, like a currency, can be bought
or sold in the market without having a signifi cant effect on the
asset ’s price. The liquidity of currencies, especially the “ major ” ones
like the U.S. dollar and the euro, is unrivaled by any other fi nancial
instrument, including stocks, bonds, and futures contracts.
5
cc0011..iinndddd 55 11//1133//0099 99::5511::5599 AAMM

Introduction to Foreign Exchange Trading
Among other implications of this high level of liquidity, because of
the staggeringly high volume of transactions and the countless number
of traders (both institutional and retail) involved in this market, it is
extremely diffi cult for any individual market participant to manipulate
foreign exchange prices artifi cially in any signifi cant manner.
This blanket statement, however, notably excludes the world ’s
central banks (e.g., the U.S. Federal Reserve (the Fed), the European
Central Bank (ECB), the Bank of Japan (BOJ)), which can and do
attempt to manipulate the markets. This type of manipulation activity,
however, has become an accepted part of the forex trading game, and
generally does not offer an unfair advantage to any speculative market
participant. Furthermore, central bank attempts to manipulate cur-
rencies for the purposes of furthering national economic policy are
usually much easier to accept than, for example, the profi t- minded
manipulation of individual stocks by often unscrupulous traders.
Apart from potential central bank manipulation, just how big is
the foreign exchange market that it can claim its place as the most
liquid market the world has known? According to the most recent
statistics issued by the Bank for International Settlements (BIS),
which serves as an international organization and “ b ank for central
banks, ” the average daily turnover in the primary foreign exchange
markets is estimated to be around $ 3 .2 trillion (as of April 2007). This
fi gure represents an unprecedented three - year growth rate of 69%,
and far eclipses the volume traded in any other fi nancial market in
the world.
Of this $ 3.2 trillion, about $ 1 trillion is in “ spot ” foreign
exchange trades, which, as mentioned earlier, are forex trades that are
distinguished by immediate delivery of the currency. Spot foreign
6
cc0011..iinndddd 66 11//1133//0099 99::5511::5599 AAMM

Open 24/5
exchange is the type of trading that most individual traders in the
retail forex market are primarily concerned with. While some indi-
vidual traders get involved with currency futures and other deriva-
tive fi nancial instruments, the growth of the spot foreign exchange
arena has largely eclipsed these smaller markets.
O
pen 24/5
Besides the sheer size and liquidity of the foreign exchange markets,
which can certainly be a great advantage to the average specula-
tive trader, another distinguishing characteristic of forex is its global,
decentralized nature. Essentially, it is an over - the - counter (OTC)
market, where the different currency trading locations around the
globe electronically form a unifi ed, interconnected market entity.
Among other advantages stemming from this fact, all currencies can
be traded electronically 24 hours a day as the major global markets
open, overlap, and close, one after another.
From the perspective of New York time (U.S. Eastern Time), the
markets open up as follows.
The very beginning of the week falls on Sunday afternoon in
New York, when the New Zealand banks open at 2:00 pm New York
time. At 5:00 pm (still New York time) the fi nancial markets in Sydney,
Australia, open. Tokyo then opens at 7:00 pm, followed by Hong Kong
and Singapore concurrently at 9:00 pm. At this point, all fi ve of these
currency -t rading fi nancial markets are open: New Zealand, Australia;
Japan; Hong Kong; and Singapore.
In the wee hours of Monday, Frankfurt, Germany, opens up
the primary euro market at 2:00 am, New York time. By this time,
7
cc0011..iinndddd 77 11//1133//0099 99::5511::5599 AAMM

Introduction to Foreign Exchange Trading
New Zealand and Australia are already closed, and the East Asian
markets of Tokyo, Hong Kong, and Singapore are on their last legs.
The European time zone continues shortly thereafter with the
opening of the pivotal London session. Customarily the market with
the most liquidity (as most foreign exchange trading has tradition-
ally occurred within the London market), London session opens an
hour after Frankfurt, at 3:00 am NY time.
Finally, at 8:00 am on Monday morning, the New York fi nan-
cial markets are the last of the major global markets to open. Since
New York is also a strong foreign exchange trading market, much like
London and Frankfurt, the overlap between these three markets —
around 8:00 to 11:00 am NY time — represents among the most
active, liquid, and volatile trading hours available in forex. At the same
time, however, the period surrounding the London opening currently
takes the crown for the most active foreign exchange market.
A couple of hours before the close of the New York market, the
New Zealand market opens up again at 2:00 pm to begin the whole
globe - hopping process all over again. After Monday, this seamless
process continues on every weekday until Friday, when the close of
the last foreign exchange market in New York signals the end of the
trading week at around 4:00 to 5:00 pm New York time. Therefore,
from around 2:00 pm on Sunday to 5:00 pm on Friday, forex trading
takes place 24 hours a day, fi ve days a week.
One important note to keep in mind about trading currencies at
all hours of the day and night is that even though a particular market
happens to be closed, it does not mean that the currency specifi c to
that market is not being traded. For example, when London opens
in the middle of the night in New York while the U.S. markets are
8
cc0011..iinndddd 88 11//1133//0099 99::5511::5599 AAMM

Playing in the Majors
closed, some of the most active trading of the U.S. dollar occurs.
Beginning traders are often under the mistaken impression that a
country ’s currency is only traded when that country’ s markets hap-
pen to be open. This is untrue only because the foreign exchange
markets are traded by people and institutions around the world via
a global, decentralized network. Therefore, U.S. dollar trading, for
example, is not dependent on the business hours of any centralized,
physical exchange located in the United States.
The fact that foreign exchange can be traded 24 hours a day
means that traders have the advantage of choosing when it is most
convenient to trade, considering their own personal schedules. For
this reason, many traders hold full - time jobs while trading forex dur-
ing off - hours. This provides a tremendous amount of fl exibility that
is not offered in other major trading markets. Of course, those traders
that choose to take advantage of the most active markets must neces-
sarily watch the currencies during the most active times, like during
London or New York market openings. But the fact that all curren-
cies can be traded 24 hours a day means that there is almost always
price movement available upon which to trade.
P
laying in the Majors
Just because there is price movement in a given currency does not
necessarily mean that the currency is liquid and heavily t raded.
On the contrary; although the number of currencies in regular use
around the world comes close to the number of countries in existence,
only a very small handful of these currencies make u p the vast major-
ity of forex trading volume. This is yet another unique c haracteristic of
9
cc0011..iinndddd 99 11//1133//0099 99::5522::0000 AAMM

Introduction to Foreign Exchange Trading
the foreign exchange market in comparison to other fi nancial markets,
and it can certainly be considered an advantage for traders.
According to the BIS, the most - traded currency, by far, is the
U.S. dollar, with consistently greater than 85% of the average daily
turnover in foreign exchange trading. The distant second place cur-
rency is the Eurozone ’s euro, with around a 37% share. Rounding
out the top currencies are the Japanese yen with approximately 16%,
and the British pound with 15% (because there are two currencies
in each traded pair, the percentages of all the currencies combined,
including the top- traded currencies cited above, will equal 200%
instead of 100%.). The structure of currency pairs as they are traded
in the foreign exchange market will be discussed in Chapter 2 ,
which covers basic trading mechanics.
Because of the fact that only a few currencies form most of the
activity in the foreign exchange market, which means that these
currencies are the most liquid and active, it is usually recommended
for beginning traders to concentrate initially just on the major
currencies. This avoids confusion and promotes focus in trading.
When matched together into predetermined currency pairings
(as will be described further in Chapter 2 ), these currencies make up
the four “ majors. ” These majors are all U.S. dollar - based and include,
fi rst and foremost, the EUR/USD (euro against U.S. dollar). This
key currency pair is considered not only the most actively traded
currency pair available, but also the most actively traded fi nancial
instrument in the world.
Following behind EUR/USD are USD/JPY (U.S. dollar against
Japanese yen), and GBP/USD (British pound against U.S. dollar).
10
cc0011..iinndddd 1100 11//1133//0099 99::5522::0000 AAMM

Playing in the Majors
Finally, USD/CHF (U.S. dollar against Swiss franc) has even less
liquidity because of the progressively diminishing market activity of
the Swiss franc over the years, but it is still considered one of the
majors. AUD/USD (Australian dollar against U.S. dollar) and USD/
CAD (U.S. dollar against Canadian dollar) are next in line in terms of
trading activity, but are not generally considered among the majors.
IN THE REAL WORLD
Currency Terminology
As in other businesses and industries, foreign exchange trading
has evolved its own vernacular over time. To outsiders, some of
the terminology used by professional forex traders may seem a
bit peculiar. But it has become virtually a language unto itself for
those that deal with currencies on a daily basis. Here are some
of the most common examples of currency terminology:
Currency or Currency Pair C ommon Terminology
GBP (British Pound) Sterling
CAD (Canadian Dollar) L oonie
USD (U.S. Dollar) G reenback
AUD (Australian Dollar) A ussie
NZD (New Zealand Dollar) Kiwi
EUR/USD (Euro/U.S. Dollar) E uro
GBP/USD (British Pound/U.S. Dollar) C able
USD/JPY (U.S. Dollar/Japanese Yen) D ollar - Yen
USD/CHF (U.S. Dollar/Swiss Franc) Dollar - Swiss or Swissy
USD/CAD (U.S. Dollar/Canadian Dollar) D ollar - Canada
11
cc0011..iinndddd 1111 11//1133//0099 99::5522::0000 AAMM

Introduction to Foreign Exchange Trading
Unlike stock trading, where there are countless possible securities
to choose from, foreign exchange trading is much simpler and more
straightforward in terms of selecting trades. Sticking to the majors — as
many foreign exchange participants are wisely apt to do— allows trad-
ers to focus their efforts in an effi cient manner rather than disperse
their attention among a multitude of different securities. In a time
marked by progressively increasing information overload, a limited set
of trading options can certainly be seen as a signifi cant benefi t.
L
everaged to the Hilt
Another feature of foreign exchange trading that differentiates it
from other fi nancial markets is the astronomical levels of leverage
that are commonplace in the forex world. The specifi cs of utiliz-
ing this leverage will be discussed in Chapter 2 . For now, though, it
should be known that many foreign exchange brokers will offer up
to 400:1 leverage on the average retail trading account. This means
that $ 1 in a trader’ s forex account can control up to $ 400 in a cur-
rency trade. The implications of this are mind - boggling. No other
major fi nancial market offers even close to this kind of leverage.
As will be discussed further in Chapter 2 , however, this can be
both a very positive feature as well as a very negative one. By defi -
nition, leverage is a type of fi nancial magnifi cation. While it is true
that high leverage magnifi es profi ts, it will also magnify losses equally.
Oftentimes, it is this high level of leverage that summarily wipes out
otherwise healthy trading accounts. Used with a great deal of caution,
however, high leverage of the magnitude found in forex trading can
offer tremendous possibilities to the upside as well as to the downside.
12
cc0011..iinndddd 1122 11//1133//0099 99::5522::0011 AAMM

The Players
T
he Players
Knowing and understanding who the primary players are within the
foreign exchange market goes a long way in helping individual trad-
ers approach the market in an informed manner. In terms of mar-
ket impact, the most infl uential group of participants in the forex
market would have to be the major banks. From the perspective of
speculative trading, these banks have a great deal of funds to throw
around, and the traders at many of these banks are responsible for
moving astronomical amounts of money. Of course, banks also do a
lot of nonspeculative currency exchanges for clients, but the specula-
tive activity is really what moves the currency markets in the most
dramatic manner. When there are big, sudden moves in currency
prices, more often than not the banks, as a collective entity, are behind
a good portion of the move.
Next in the hierarchy of speculative currency traders would
have to be the hedge funds and other investment fi rms. In recent
years, these entities, which often control a great deal of discretionary
client equity, have progressively increased their speculative activities
in foreign exchange. Because of the sheer enormity of the funds at
their disposal, some of these fi rms come close to rivaling the major
banks in their power to infl uence the currency markets.
Other participants in the foreign exchange market are not gener-
ally considered speculative players, and therefore may not be as infl u-
ential in their trading activities as the participants described above.
These include the central banks, which, as discussed earlier, are not
considered speculative in their market activities. Rather, central banks
get in the game primarily to further their economic policy agendas.
13
cc0011..iinndddd 1133 11//1133//0099 99::5522::0011 AAMM

Introduction to Foreign Exchange Trading
Because of their vast importance in helping ultimately to determine
currency value, however, central banks certainly have the potential to
impact currency prices with their attempts at currency manipulation.
Companies wishing to convert their funds to a foreign currency
in order to purchase foreign goods or services are another exam-
ple of nonspeculative market players. When their currency exchange
activities are factored in collectively, these companies may help par-
tially determine the course of international trade fl ow. Though this
collective activity can certainly have some lasting impact on the cur-
rency markets, it is perhaps not infl uential enough to be of great sig-
nifi cance to speculative foreign exchange traders.
The last group of market participants in foreign exchange is, by
far, the smallest and least signifi cant with regard to infl uence on the
market as a whole. This group consists most notably of people like
you, the individual retail trader. Whether you have $ 100 or $ 100,000
or even more to trade through your retail forex broker, none of
your trading activity will likely ever move the currency markets in
any appreciable way. That is not to say that you are at all unimpor-
tant. Rather, it just means that your trades, along with those of every
other individual forex trader combined, will probably never infl u-
ence the direction of the vast foreign exchange market. This, again,
goes back to the sheer size and liquidity of the market, as well as
the fact that its activity is so overwhelmingly dominated by well-
heeled fi nancial institutions whose funds dwarf those of individual
retail traders.
But while retail traders, via their brokers, will unlikely ever
infl uence the course of the foreign exchange market, they can
certainly learn how to trade it effectively and hopefully to extract
14
cc0011..iinndddd 1144 11//1133//0099 99::5522::0011 AAMM

What Moves the Forex Markets?
profi t from it. That is precisely the goal for the rest of this book.
From basic forex trading mechanics to common analytical methods
to specifi c trading strategies and risk management techniques, this
book is intended to steer individual traders effectively through the
maze that is foreign exchange trading.
W
hat Moves the Forex Markets?
In order to steer through this maze successfully, foreign exchange
traders should become familiar with the forces that drive this mar-
ket. Although there are many traders who insist that market drivers,
or causes of price fl uctuations, are unimportant because everything
is already refl ected in price action on the charts, it would be a grave
mistake to ignore the fundamental roots of market movement.
As will be discussed further in Chapter 4 on fundamental analysis,
knowing what moves the forex market is integral to becoming an
informed, and therefore well - equipped, foreign exchange trader.
The primary movers of currency exchange rates are all tied to
the basic forces of economics, as will be described in detail within
Chapter 4 . For now, though, a simplifi cation of the cause of cur-
rency exchange rate movement can be said to relate directly to the
process of international capital fl ow. This is simply the movement of
money from one currency to another. International capital fl ows, in
turn, are caused by basic economic supply and demand factors.
As will be expounded on in Chapter 4 , supply and demand are
determined by a number of different factors. Most notably, these fac-
tors include a country’ s interest rates, infl ation situation, GDP growth,
employment, trade balance, and other barometers of economic
15
cc0011..iinndddd 1155 11//1133//0099 99::5522::0011 AAMM

Introduction to Foreign Exchange Trading
health. If demand for a currency increases (and/or supply decreases)
as a result of one or a combination of these factors, that currency’ s
exchange rate will generally increase in relation to other curren-
cies. Conversely, if demand for a currency decreases (and/or supply
increases) as a result of one or a combination of the factors above,
that currency’ s exchange rate will generally decrease in relation to
other currencies. It is a simple concept, but one that is not so simple
to utilize in attempting to forecast market directions.
Aside from the fundamental market drivers just described, tech-
nical factors are often overlooked or underestimated in their ability
to help move the forex markets. Although this will all be discussed
in great detail in Chapter 3 , a brief explanation here will help illus-
trate the point.
Traders in many banks, hedge funds, and other potential market-
moving institutions will often use certain techniques of technical
analysis to help them make trading decisions. These traders all have
access to the same price charts. Furthermore, these charts all show
the same patterns, key price levels, and technical phenomena, with
perhaps just some minor differences due to variations in the traders’
individual interpretations.
This means that these infl uential players are generally all seeing
the same types of technical events on the charts, which will often
prompt many of them to buy at a similar price level, as well as sell at a
similar price level. When a great deal of institutional money is on the
same side of the market at the same approximate price level, prices
can and will be infl uenced in one direction or another. In fact, this
phenomenon of collective trading activity by infl uential market play-
ers is considered one of the primary causes of support and resistance
16
cc0011..iinndddd 1166 11//1133//0099 99::5522::0022 AAMM

What to Expect from This Book
levels being respected so precisely in many instances. One of the most
signifi cant concepts in foreign exchange trading, support/resistance
will be explored in much more detail in Chapter 3 , which covers
technical analysis.
W
hat to Expect from This Book
The core of this book begins with in- depth descriptions of basic foreign
exchange trading mechanics in Chapter 2 . This includes all of the ter-
minology and explanations necessary to get started in foreign exchange
trading. From the structure of a currency pair to the intricacies of mar-
gin and leverage as they pertain to forex trading, Chapter 2 will get
true beginners up and running quickly. The chapter is also directed at
experienced traders coming from other fi nancial markets, serving as a
thorough discourse on the unique intricacies of trading currencies.
Following the chapter on basic trading mechanics is Chapter 3 ,
which is a comprehensive discussion of technical analysis as it is
applied to foreign exchange trading. The tools of technical analy-
sis are perhaps the most tangible and accessible trading tools avail-
able to the individual foreign exchange trader. Software programs
used specifi cally for charting prices in the foreign exchange mar-
ket abound, and they provide the most popular way for most cur-
rency traders to make trading decisions. From free - hand trendlines
to m athematically d erived chart indicators to complex pattern for-
mations, the primary tools of technical analysis, as they are used to
trade forex market movement, will be the sole focus of Chapter 3 .
Next is Chapter 4 , which is devoted exclusively to fundamen-
tal analysis as it applies to foreign exchange trading. This important
17
cc0011..iinndddd 1177 11//1133//0099 99::5522::0022 AAMM

Introduction to Foreign Exchange Trading
discipline can best be described as the study of factors that drive
currency exchange rate movement. From interest rates to infl ation
to economic growth and much more, the fundamental concepts
described in Chapter 4 provide an essential foundation of knowl-
edge for forex traders who wish to understand what really makes
the foreign exchange markets tick.
Moving on to Chapter 5 , this is where the knowledge gained
in previous chapters can be put to practical use. Chapter 5 is all
about foreign exchange trading methods and strategies, or the ways
in which top currency traders tackle the markets on a daily basis.
Included in this chapter are sections on strategic trading based on
trends, breakouts, chart patterns, news, interest carry, divergences,
multiple timeframes, and much more. The methods and strategies
contained in this chapter provide traders with practical ideas that
can be used almost immediately to trade forex.
Finally, Chapter 6 closes the book with some extremely impor-
tant elements of trading. This chapter is found at the end of the book
because it introduces perhaps the most advanced concepts in the
book, and not because its contents are any less important than other
subjects. On the contrary, concepts like risk and money management,
trading discipline, and the optimal trader ’s psychology, are often con-
sidered by experienced traders to be among the most important
components of a successful trading career. Since many beginning
traders instead believe that fi nding the best trade entry point is the
most crucial aspect of good trading, it is especially imperative that
these novice traders pay particularly close attention to Chapter 6.
As a whole, this book should serve as a solid introduction and
guide to the fascinating world of foreign exchange trading. Much
18
cc0011..iinndddd 1188 11//1133//0099 99::5522::0022 AAMM

Chapter Summary
more can be said about the minute intricacies of how this mar-
ket works. But in order to learn how it really works, the very best
teacher beyond this book on the essentials is a lot of hands - on expe-
rience. Nothing beats getting your hands dirty by getting in there
and actually practicing. Fortunately, this is extremely easy in today ’s
retail currency trading environment. Virtually every reputable forex
broker offers free practice account demos of their trading platforms,
complete with real - time prices, charting software, and newsfeed
services. With these convenient resources at every prospective forex
trader ’s fi ngertips, there is absolutely no excuse not to get out there
and start trading currencies with play money in a practice account.
C
hapter Summary
In this introduction to E ssentials of Foreign Exchange Trading, a brief
history and description of the development of the foreign exchange
market was touched upon. After the collapse of the Bretton Woods
Agreements, which essentially fi xed exchange rates, speculative cur-
rency trading was able to develop in an extremely rapid manner.
Fast forward to the past decade or so, and this development
became even more rapid with the help of the Internet and technol-
ogy enhancements. Modern- day spot forex trading via retail elec-
tronic platforms has opened up new opportunities for legions of
individual traders.
Characteristics inherent in the foreign exchange market that dif-
ferentiate it from other fi nancial markets include the fact that it is
the most heavily traded market in the world, by far. This ensures that
its liquidity is second to none. Another differentiating characteristic
19
cc0011..iinndddd 1199 11//1133//0099 99::5522::0066 AAMM

Introduction to Foreign Exchange Trading
is that forex is open 24 hours a day (except weekends), as the market
travels seamlessly around the globe with the changing time zones.
Other notable distinguishing features include the fact that there are
only a handful of tradable currencies to worry about, as opposed
to countless stocks and options, as well as the fact that forex offers
extremely high leverage levels (currently up to 400:1).
The key speculative players in the foreign exchange market
include the major commercial and investment banks, as well as the
larger hedge funds. The lowest rung on the totem pole of infl uential
participants consists of individual retail traders. Although there may
be a great deal of enthusiasm in this group, individual traders are
generally unable to move the forex markets in any appreciable way.
The primary drivers of foreign exchange price movement include
key fundamental factors like interest rates, GDP, employment, and
infl ation, which all help affect the basic economic supply and demand
situation for each currency. Besides the fundamentals, technical fac-
tors can also contribute signifi cantly to exchange rate movement.
Finally, the rest of the chapters in this book were introduced. In
its entirety, this book serves as an essential guide to foreign exchange
trading, as the title suggests. But nothing could ever take the place of
hands - on, practical experience. Forex traders are fortunate to have
their pick of free demo practice accounts provided by forex bro-
kers. These accounts generally differ from real accounts only by the
kind of money traded (play money versus real money). Therefore, it
is incumbent upon the serious student of forex to practice diligently
with these demo accounts, as no better method exists of gaining
invaluable experience and self - directed education at no cost.
20
cc0011..iinndddd 2200 11//1133//0099 99::5522::0066 AAMM

CHAPTER 2
Basic Foreign
Exchange Trading
Mechanics
After reading this chapter, you will be
able to:
● Appreciate the unique structure of currency pairs .
● Place foreign exchange trades using any type of trade
order .
● Understand the mechanics behind stop losses and profi t
limits .
● Recognize how lot size, leverage, and margin can affect
your trading .
● Identify the potential transaction costs involved in forex
trading, including spreads and interest .
21
cc0022..iinndddd 2211 11//1133//0099 99::5566::1155 AAMM

Basic Foreign Exchange Trading Mechanics
A
natomy of a Currency Pair
The foreign exchange market is traded in a very unique way when
compared with other major fi nancial markets like stocks or futures.
Unlike these more traditional markets, foreign exchange trading is
accomplished using the relative value of the underlying instrument,
rather than the absolute value.
More specifi cally, currencies are traded in pairs. When forex
traders talk about trading the U.S. dollar, for example, they are really
talking about trading the U.S. dollar ’s relative value against another
currency. This other currency could be the euro, the British pound,
the Japanese yen, or even the Thai baht, among many others. The
fi rst currency in a currency pair is called the “ base ” currency, while
the second currency is called the “ quote” (or “ counter” ) currency.
It cannot be emphasized enough how important it is to keep in
mind that there are two integral, opposing components of a traded
currency pair, instead of the single component prevalent in trad-
ing stocks or futures. When forex traders initiate market positions,
it is imperative that they take into consideration the relative value
of both currencies. This means that a trader should not just consider
whether a currency will go up or down in value. Rather, the trader
must always take into account whether the currency ’s value will go
up or down in comparison with another currency.
For example, one of the most commonly traded currency pairs
is the USD/JPY, which can be described in longhand as the U.S.
dollar against the Japanese yen. If traders maintain the view that
the value of the U.S. dollar will rise in relation to the Japanese yen,
they will buy the USD/JPY pair. Conversely, if they think that the
22
cc0022..iinndddd 2222 11//1133//0099 99::5566::1155 AAMM

Anatomy of a Currency Pair
U.S. dollar will fall in relation to the Japanese yen, they will sell the
USD/JPY pair.
Logically, by the same token, if traders believe that the yen will
rise in relation to the dollar, they will sell USD/JPY. And if they
think the yen will fall against the dollar, they will buy USD/JPY. At
fi rst this may appear confusing. But if one considers currency pairs
as a coupling of polar opposites, it becomes a lot easier to grasp with
some time and experience.
As a point of reference, the top tier of currency pairs are the four
“ majors, ” which consist of the most traded, and therefore most liquid,
U.S. dollar - based pairs. These are EUR/USD (euro against U.S. dollar),
USD/JPY (U.S. dollar against Japanese yen), GBP/USD (British pound
against U.S. dollar), and USD/CHF (U.S. dollar against Swiss franc).
Then, there are the “ semi - major ” pairs, which also contain the
U.S. dollar but are not traded as actively as the majors. These include
USD/CAD (U.S. dollar against Canadian dollar) and AUD/USD
(Australian dollar against U.S. dollar).
After these, there are the many signifi cant “ crosses” which, by
defi nition, do not contain the U.S. dollar. Crosses include EUR/
GBP (euro against British pound), AUD/NZD (Australian dollar
against New Zealand dollar), CAD/JPY (Canadian dollar against
Japanese yen), GBP/CHF (British pound against Swiss franc), and
EUR/JPY (euro against Japanese yen), among others.
And fi nally, the exotics, which are thinly traded on the global
forex market compared to the more popular majors and crosses,
round out the currency pair list. These pairs include such currencies
as the Hungarian forint (HUF), the Malaysian ringgit (MYR), and
the South African rand (ZAR), among numerous others.
23
cc0022..iinndddd 2233 11//1133//0099 99::5566::1166 AAMM

Basic Foreign Exchange Trading Mechanics
G
oing Long and Selling Short
The fact that currencies are traded in pairs differentiates the foreign
exchange market from other fi nancial markets in important ways,
one of which is the concept of long and short.
In trading equities, for example, a “ long ” entry is simply the
process of buying shares in a specifi c security in the hope that it will
go up in value. Conversely, a “ short ” entry is to sell shares before
actually owning them. This is with the understanding that the shares
must be bought back or “ covered” at a later date, hopefully for a
profi t if the stock goes down. Consequently, if traders believe that
a stock will go up, they will enter the trade “ long. ” If, on the other
hand, they think it will go down in price, they will sell “ short. ”
The foreign exchange market, in contrast, treats long and
short in a signifi cantly different manner. To be long EUR/USD, for
example, is to simultaneously buy euro and sell dollar. To be short
EUR/USD, on the other hand, is to simultaneously sell euro and
buy dollar. So whether one is long or short any given currency pair,
one is always long one of the currencies in the pair, and short the
other.
This concept may seem foreign to traders used to dealing with
stocks and/or futures, but it essentially means that no matter what
position a trader takes in the currency markets, that trader is always
both bullish (fi nancially optimistic) on one currency while simulta-
neously bearish (fi nancially pessimistic) on another.
Now that the structure of currency pairs has been established,
the all - important topics of order type and trade placement can be
discussed.
24
cc0022..iinndddd 2244 11//1133//0099 99::5566::1166 AAMM

Going Long and Selling Short
EXECUTIVE INSIGHT
Robert R. Prechter Jr.
Robert R. Prechter Jr., CMT, famed publisher of T he Elliott Wave
Theorist since 1979, is founder/president of Elliott Wave Inter-
national (elliottwave.com) and executive director of the Socionomics
Institute. Legendary for his market timing and trading acumen utiliz-
ing Elliott Wave principles, Prechter has won numerous major acco-
lades from the media and fi nancial community over an illustrious,
decades - long career. He has authored many books, several of which
were instrumental in bringing Ralph Nelson Elliott’ s ground b reaking
Elliott Wave Principle into the forefront of fi nancial market analysis.
Prechter states:
“ Currencies help us understand a fundamental aspect
of markets. They make clear that all markets are simply
ratios. ”
“ Stock indexes are expressions of share values in
terms of some currency. For example, the Dow Jones
Industrial Average is the ratio of an average of 30 Dow
stocks relative to dollars. But one could just as well
express the ratio as its inverse, showing the value of
a dollar in terms of 30 Dow stocks. Then, instead of
watching the Dow go up and down, investors would
be watching the dollar go up and down in terms of a cer-
tain group of 30 stocks. They would be talking about how
their dollars are doing instead of how their stocks are
doing. ”
“ Many people have diffi culty understanding the sim-
ple fact that markets are ratios. Thankfully, currency
markets illustrate the matter clearly. A U.S. investor can
observe the dollar going up and down by watching the
dollar/euro ratio. A European can watch the euro go up
25
cc0022..iinndddd 2255 11//1133//0099 99::5566::1166 AAMM

Basic Foreign Exchange Trading Mechanics
EXECUTIVE INSIGHT (CONTINUED)
and down by watching the euro/dollar ratio. Each of these
two investors — if he hasn ’t thought about the matter—
might have a different psychological orientation to his
local expression of the ratio. But that doesn’ t change the
fact — obvious in this instance— that both investors are
looking at exactly the same information. ‘ Up ’ and ‘ down ’
have no real referent. ”
“ Most stock investors are married to the idea that up
is good and down is bad. There is some basis for truth
in this feeling, because a downtrend in the stock mar-
ket indicates a trend toward more negative social mood,
which in turn has negative results in social action. But in
terms of investment success, the direction is irrelevant,
and feelings of ‘ good ’ and ‘ bad ’ only get in the way of
successful decision - making. ”
“A currency investor has an advantage over a stock
investor, because he should be far less married to
feelings of whether a certain direction for a ratio is
‘ good ’ or ‘ bad. ’ In the currency trader’ s world, there is no
qualitative difference between the numerator and the
denominator. On one side of the ratio is one currency,
and on the other side is another. There is not even prop-
erly an ‘ up ’ or a ‘ down ’ direction. Every move is both
directions, depending on how you express the ratio.
The point is that a currency investor should be able to
approach his craft with less psychological baggage than
a stock investor carries and therefore with more objectiv-
ity and a better chance of success. This difference makes
it easier for a currency analyst to see that his job is not to
‘ hope ’ or ‘ fear ’ but just to get the trends right. If all inves-
tors could learn that lesson, they would be better off.”
26
cc0022..iinndddd 2266 11//1133//0099 99::5566::1166 AAMM

Entry orders—Waiting until the Price Is Right
M
arket Orders — On the Spot
Depending on the specifi c strategy or type of trading preferred,
foreign exchange traders often rely heavily upon market orders. A
market order simply means that a trader wishes to enter a currency
position at the present moment, whether it is an order to buy (long)
or sell (short) a specifi c currency pair.
The main functionality that differentiates this type of order from
others is the fact that a market order is executed at the current mar-
ket price, as opposed to a future price level.
Market orders are primarily used by traders who are physically
at their trading stations watching the market, waiting for either a
specifi c technical chart setup or a fundamental news announcement.
Once one of these trading opportunities presents itself, the trader is
then able to establish a virtually instant market position through the
use of a well - placed market order.
E
ntry Orders — Waiting until the Price Is Right
In contrast to the immediate nature of market orders, entry orders are
pending positions whose purpose is to trigger when a certain price
level is reached. These types of orders can be set to execute well ahead
of time, and will only be executed if the specifi ed price is reached.
There are two primary types of entry orders — stop entries and
limit entries. In the retail foreign exchange market, the functional
discrepancy between these two entry order types is largely semantic,
and many brokers simply blur the differences by calling them both
limit orders. But for those forex brokers that keep the delineation
27
cc0022..iinndddd 2277 11//1133//0099 99::5566::1177 AAMM

Basic Foreign Exchange Trading Mechanics
intact, traders simply need to learn and remember the defi nitions,
which are as follows:
Buy stop —a n entry order to buy at a price above the current price.
Buy limit — an entry order to buy at a price below the current price.
Sell stop — an entry order to sell at a price below the current price.
Sell limit — an entry order to sell at a price above the current price.
Unlike market orders, entry orders are primarily used by traders
who are unable or unwilling to be watching real- time prices and
waiting for trade opportunities at their trading stations. With entry
orders, complete orders can be entered ahead of time that encom-
pass the full trading lifecycle, including both the trade entry as well
as the stop loss and profi t target exits. These trade exits will be dis-
cussed in more detail in the next section.
Entry orders may also be used as a tool for enforcing order entry
discipline. Traders placing market orders at the current price are
often prone to entering orders “ on the fl y, ” as a result of counter-
productive emotions like greed and fear. In contrast, the mechanism
of entry orders encourages traders to enter trades only if their spe-
cifi c, predetermined price level and entry rules are met. Discipline
is a tremendously vital factor in successful trading that will be dis-
cussed further in Chapter 6 .
S
topping Losses with Stop Losses and
Trailing Stops
Whereas market orders and entry orders are trade entries, stop losses,
trailing stops, and profi t limits (described in the next section) are
28
cc0022..iinndddd 2288 11//1133//0099 99::5566::1177 AAMM

Stopping Losses with Stop Losses and Trailing Stops
trade exits. While many beginning traders concentrate almost exclu-
sively on entries, most intermediate and advanced traders eventu-
ally come to realize that exits are at least as important, and some say
even more important, than getting the entries right.
In this section, only the basic mechanics of stop losses and trail-
ing stops will be touched upon. Later, in Chapter 6 , in a section that
covers risk management, the full meaning and nuances of using stop
losses will be discussed.
Stop losses are exactly what they appear to be. They actu-
ally “ stop losses.” A stop loss is a form of pending order that can
be attached to any open order or position, whether that trade was
originally a market order or an entry order.
A stop loss closes an open trade when that trade reaches a pre-
determined level of loss. It is the price point at which a trader no
longer wishes to be involved in the trade because of the desire to
limit losses to a manageable level.
When using technical analysis (which will be discussed in great
detail in Chapter 3 ), a trader will employ a stop loss to get out of a
losing trade once that trade no longer makes sense from a technical
price perspective.
For example, if a currency pair ’s price breaks out above a criti-
cal resistance line, and a technical trader then buys the pair in hopes
of profi ting on a continued price climb, a sensible location for a
technical stop loss would be right below the line from where price
broke out. This is because if price subsequently retreats back below
the line, it is no longer considered a valid breakout trade and the
trade no longer makes sense. Stop losses are an incredibly useful tool
for predetermining trade risk and limiting catastrophic trading losses.
29
cc0022..iinndddd 2299 11//1133//0099 99::5566::1177 AAMM

Basic Foreign Exchange Trading Mechanics
The close cousin to the simple stop loss is the trailing stop
loss. Whereas a stop loss is, by defi nition, a static order to close a
trade at a predetermined loss level, a trailing stop loss is a dynamic
order to close a trade at progressively better prices. The primary
purpose of a trailing stop loss order is to limit losses while automati-
cally locking i n gains. A trailing stop loss accomplishes this by sys-
tematically moving the stop loss as the price moves in favor of the
position.
For example, a trader buys the EUR/USD pair. The trader then
wishes not only to limit losses if price goes against this long posi-
tion, but also to lock - in gains if price favors the position. To accom-
plish this, the trader would set - up a trailing stop loss. If the stop - loss
is set to trail the market price by 20 pips (the concept of pips will
be described shortly), it will actually follow the price dynamically by
an increment of 20 pips as the market moves, but only if the market
moves in a favorable direction.
The key concept to remember is that the trailing stop will only
move one way — in favor of the trader ’s position. If price moves
against the trader ’s position, the trailing stop will not move. And if
price moves against the trader ’s position by more than the predeter-
mined trailing stop increment, the trade will automatically be closed
by the trailing stop. If this occurs after a long price run in favor of
the trader’ s position, substantial profi ts will have been gained while
having dynamically limited losses from the outset.
Trailing stop losses are often key components of professional risk
management strategies, and can be used to great advantage by the
typical foreign exchange trader.
30
cc0022..iinndddd 3300 11//1133//0099 99::5566::1177 AAMM

Exit with Caution
P
rofit Limits — When You’ re in the Money
Another important type of exit order is the profi t limit. Profi t limits
can be considered the direct opposite of stop losses. The purpose of
a profi t limit order is to close an open trade automatically at a pre-
determined, profi table price level so that the trader may realize those
profi ts into the trading account.
A profi t limit order is set up much like a trader would set up a
stop loss order, only in the opposite direction.
Profi t limits are set primarily with the intention of realizing and
securing profi ts before price reverses and erases those profi ts. When
foreign exchange traders set entry orders, they will often also set
both stop losses and profi t limits so that there is a contingency for
any direction price may take within a given trade.
E
xit with Caution
The last type of trade exit to be discussed here is the manual exit,
or manual close. This consists of simply closing an open trade at the
current market price, much like a trader would open a trade at
the current market price with a market order.
Relying on manual exits instead of preset exits can be a danger-
ous practice for beginners. Much like traders who over rely on mar-
ket orders may be prone to opening positions haphazardly because
of emotions like greed or fear, traders using manual exits may fall
into the same type of trap.
Mental stops — which means a trader has an “ intention ” to man-
ually close out a losing trade at some point of fi nancial pain, but
31
cc0022..iinndddd 3311 11//1133//0099 99::5566::1199 AAMM

Basic Foreign Exchange Trading Mechanics
does not actually set the stop loss— fall into the category of manual
exits. For obvious reasons, mental stops can potentially be dangerous,
especially if the trader does not actually have the necessary discipline
to close the losing trade and avoid a catastrophic loss.
On the profi t end of the spectrum, manual exits can also be
potentially disadvantageous. If a strict profi t limit that conforms to
a properly planned risk:reward ratio is not set (risk:reward is dis-
cussed further in Chapter 6 , which covers risk management), traders
are often tempted prematurely to close winning positions manually.
In other words, with manual exits, fearful beginners will often close
their trades too early and with too small a profi t to become consist-
ently successful traders.
T
rade Size — Lots and Lots of Lots
Whether entering or exiting a currency trade, how much of a given
currency is actually being bought or sold? The answer lies in the lot.
The closest equivalent to a lot in the fi nancial markets is the con-
tract, which is standard futures trading terminology. Lots, much like
the role of contracts in the futures markets, are the standardized units
of trade that are bought and sold in the foreign exchange market.
There are several types of lots available to trade that are classifi ed
according to size. Standard, mini, and micro (or super - mini) are gener-
ally the main terms used by retail forex brokers and traders to describe
the different tradable lot sizes. A standard lot is sized at 100,000 currency
units, while a mini lot is 10,000 units, and a micro lot is 1,000 units.
These lot sizes are defi ned in generic unit terms because the spe-
cifi c currency represented by the units depends on which currency
32
cc0022..iinndddd 3322 11//1133//0099 99::5566::1199 AAMM

Leveraging Margin and Leverage
pair is traded. For example, if a standard lot of EUR/USD is traded, it
would be 100,000 euros. In contrast, if it was a standard lot of AUD/
JPY, the lot size would be 100,000 Australian dollars.
It is vitally important that a trader chooses a lot size that is
appropriate to that trader ’s account size and risk tolerance. The lot
size chosen by the trader affects virtually all other aspects of trading.
This includes the margin required to enter and keep open a given
trade; the monetary value per pip movement in price; the amount
paid in spread costs; and the amount of interest paid or received. All
of these topics will be described next within this chapter.
L
everaging Margin and Leverage
The concepts of margin and leverage are extremely important.
Margin is the actual amount of trading equity in a trader’ s account
that is available to use for controlling currency positions. Leverage is
the multiplier by which a trader can magnify the fi nancial control-
ling power of margin.
Because of the high leverage common in foreign exchange trad-
ing, a trader is able to trade a large lot amount like $ 100,000 with
only a small fraction of this amount in trading account margin.
Common leverage ratios currently offered by foreign exchange
brokers range from 50:1 on the low side all the way up to 400:1 on
the high side. The sheer magnitude of this level of leverage, even
on the low side, far eclipses the amount of leverage available in other
fi nancial trading markets.
In practical terms, what this means to the foreign exchange
trader is that a standard lot of $ 100,000, for example, can be
33
cc0022..iinndddd 3333 11//1133//0099 99::5566::1199 AAMM

Basic Foreign Exchange Trading Mechanics
traded in the USD/CHF currency pair with only $ 250 in trad-
ing account margin. This is assuming that the maximum lever-
age of 400:1 is utilized. In other words, for every $ 1 that a trader
has invested in a forex account, that trader can control a whopping
$ 400 in a currency trade. In this particular example, the $ 250 in the
trader ’s trading account can control a trade of $ 100,000, using 400:1
leverage.
Of course, like many good things in life, the massive amount
of leverage offered in foreign exchange trading can be viewed as
the proverbial double - edged sword. The fact that a small amount of
money controls a large amount of money in forex trading can cer-
tainly serve to magnify profi t potential. But on the fl ip side of the
coin, the amount of risk inherent in highly leveraged trading like
this is equally magnifi ed.
Therefore, it is advisable to use caution when trading with the
substantial leverage common in forex trading. Highly leveraged trad-
ing is aggressive trading that is characterized by both high risk and
high potential reward.
M
argin Call — Insufficient Funds
The risk that is assumed when trading aggressively in currencies is
primarily confi ned to the dreaded margin call. But contrary to the
popular opinion that a margin call represents the worst - case sce-
nario for a trader, this is far from the truth. The worst case could be
far worse.
A margin call is actually a safeguard to protect the trader from
losing 100%, or even more, of the money in a trading account.
34
cc0022..iinndddd 3344 11//1133//0099 99::5566::1199 AAMM

Margin Call—Insufficient Funds
To owe additional funds to a broker is actually the worst - case sce-
nario, and this uncomfortable situation is largely avoidable because
of the existence of the margin call.
Unlike in the world of traditional stock trading, a margin call
in foreign exchange trading is not actually a physical call from the
broker to add additional funds to the margin account when equity
is running low. In forex, if a trader no longer has enough equity in
the trading account to keep the open position(s) viable, the trad-
ing platform software automatically closes out all open positions and
immediately realizes all losses at the prevailing market rates.
Although this may seem a bit cold - hearted, there are good rea-
sons for automated margin calls in foreign exchange trading. Prices
can move extremely fast in the forex market, and because of the
high leverage involved, every price move is magnifi ed. Therefore,
when a trader ’s equity runs low, the account can become depleted
quickly and there is usually not enough time to call for more funds.
As a safeguard measure, the forex margin call closes all open posi-
tions to help ensure that the trader does not lose the entire account,
or worse.
So when exactly is a margin call triggered? This depends entirely
on the number and size of the lot(s) traded, the leverage chosen,
and the equity in the account. But generally speaking, a margin call
is triggered when a trading account no longer has suffi cient equity
available to maintain the required margin for the positions that are
currently open.
For example, suppose a trader has $ 2500 in a trading account,
and leverage of 100:1 with a standard lot size of 100,000 units per
trade have been chosen as the settings for this account. If this trader
35
cc0022..iinndddd 3355 11//1133//0099 99::5566::2200 AAMM

Basic Foreign Exchange Trading Mechanics
wishes to buy one lot (or GBP£ 100,000) of the GBP/USD pair,
USD $ 1970 in margin is required to be put up, as per the exchange
rate at the time of this writing. This is because £ 1000 is needed to
control £ 100,000 at 100:1 leverage. But since the trading account
is denominated in U.S. dollars, this £ 1000 needs to be converted
into the U.S. dollar equivalent (which, at the current exchange rate,
comes out to around $ 1970).
Each minimum price movement, or pip (explained in the
next section), is worth exactly USD$ 10 in this scenario. If we
assume that this trader does not place any stop losses and the mar-
ket goes against the position, every price movement against the
position will bring down the account equity by $ 10. So, once
again, if the trader has an initial $ 2500 in a trading account and
the margin required to keep the trade open is $ 1970, the account
will experience a margin call and the position will automatically
be closed once equity dips below $ 1970, which is $ 530 below the
initial account equity. At $ 10 per pip, this constitutes a potential
pip loss of around 53 pips (minus the spread) before margin call is
reached.
The obvious problem with the example just given is that the
trader entered into an inordinately large trade for the amount of
funds in the trading account, and the trader also failed to use a stop
loss. Of course, margin calls and even more horrible doomsday sce-
narios can easily be avoided just by using some good old- fashioned
trading prudence. This includes using stop losses and only enter-
ing trades that are sized appropriately in proportion to the size of
the trading account. This will be discussed further in the section
covering risk and money management in Chapter 6 .
36
cc0022..iinndddd 3366 11//1133//0099 99::5566::2200 AAMM

Pips—The Currency of Currency Trading
P
ips — The Currency of Currency Trading
Up to this point, pips have been lightly touched upon but not prop-
erly defi ned. An extremely important concept in foreign exchange
trading, a pip is simply the smallest unit of price movement in the
exchange rate of a currency pair. Pip can stand for “ percentage in
point ” or “ price interest point. ” But regardless of the exact acro-
nym defi nition, its practical meaning is clear. Traders trade foreign
exchange in order to earn pips. Earned pips are the reward for a
good trade, while lost pips are the punishment for a bad trade.
Loosely akin to the “ tick ” found in other fi nancial markets, a pip
most often refers to the smallest change in the fourth decimal place
of most major currencies. This would be the equivalent of 1/100 th of
one percent, or one basis point. The notable exception to this would
be currency pairs denominated in Japanese yen, or JPY, in which a
pip would constitute the smallest change in the second decimal place.
So, for the vast majority of currency pairs like EUR/USD or
GBP/CHF or AUD/NZD, the exchange rate format would look
like x.xxxx, where a change of 0.0001 would constitute a pip move-
ment. On the other hand, for the handful of currency pairs featur-
ing the yen, like USD/JPY or GBP/JPY, the exchange rate format
would look like xxx.xx, where a change of 000.01 would constitute
a pip movement.
Calculating the exact value of each pip for the currency pair
and lot size traded is the job of the broker ’s trading platform, which
should include some kind of pip calculator created expressly for this
purpose. In its absence, however, here is a simple calculation:
Value Per Pip = [Lot Size] (cid:1) [Number of Lots] (cid:1) [Pip Size]
37
cc0022..iinndddd 3377 11//1133//0099 99::5566::2200 AAMM

Basic Foreign Exchange Trading Mechanics
The result of this equation will be denominated in the quote
currency (the second currency in the pair). No currency conversion
is needed for U.S. dollar - denominated trading accounts if the quote
currency is already USD. To obtain the dollar value per pip if the
quote currency is anything other than USD, however, the result must
be converted to dollars using the current exchange rate between the
quote currency and the U.S. dollar. Here are a few examples:
Example 1: Pip value for 1 standard lot of USD/JPY = 100,000
[Lot Size] (cid:1) 1 [Number of Lots] (cid:1) 000.01 [Pip Size] = ¥ 1000
(quote currency in Japanese yen)
Dollar pip value = ¥ 1000 ÷ 101.00 [current USD/JPY exchange
rate] = $ 9.90/pip
Example 2: Pip value for 1 standard lot of EUR/GBP = 100,000
[Lot Size] (cid:1) 1 [Number of Lots] (cid:1) 0.0001 [Pip Size] (cid:2) £ 10
(quote currency in British pounds)
Dollar pip value (cid:2) £ 10 (cid:1) 1.9750 [current GBP/USD exchange
rate] = $ 19.75/pip
Example 3: Dollar pip value for 1 standard lot of EUR/USD (cid:2)
100,000 [Lot Size] (cid:1) 1 [Number of Lots] (cid:1) 0.0001 [Pip Size] (cid:2)
$ 10/pip (quote currency already in U.S. dollars)
This may all seem very confusing at fi rst to the beginning trader,
but again, most forex trading platforms come well - equipped with
a pip calculator that provides all pip values. If this calculator is not
offered, it helps to keep in mind that all currency pairs ending in
USD (as the quote currency) will be $ 10/pip for a standard lot,
38
cc0022..iinndddd 3388 11//1133//0099 99::5566::2200 AAMM

Spreading the Wealth—Spreads or Commissions
$ 1/pip for a mini lot, and $ 0.10/pip for a micro lot. This includes
heavily traded pairs like EUR/USD, GBP/USD, and AUD/USD.
For other key pairs like USD/JPY, USD/CHF, and USD/CAD,
their exchange rates as of this writing conveniently place their pip
values in the same approximate vicinity as the pairs ending in USD.
For a standard lot, these pairs are currently at $ 9.87/pip, $ 9.99/pip,
and $ 9.80/pip, respectively.
Finally, it should be kept in mind that while the lot size, amount
of lots traded and specifi c currency pair traded will certainly affect
pip value, the leverage chosen by the trader, whether it is 50:1, 400:1
or somewhere in between, has absolutely no bearing whatsoever on
pip value.
S
preading the Wealth — Spreads or
Commissions?
Closely related to pip value is the much - discussed topic of spreads.
Futures and equities traders have been accustomed to paying com-
missions to their brokers on each and every trade, pretty much since
the beginning of time. Within the past decade or so, retail foreign
exchange brokers began emerging with their promises of no
commissions.
Most recipients of this still - enduring marketing message eventu-
ally come to realize that the broker must somehow make money, if
not through the “ commissions ” label. The moniker for forex broker
revenue is therefore known as the spread.
A spread is simply the difference in pips between the bid price
(exchange rate at which a trader can sell a currency pair) and the
39
cc0022..iinndddd 3399 11//1133//0099 99::5566::2200 AAMM

Basic Foreign Exchange Trading Mechanics
ask price (exchange rate at which a trader can buy a currency pair).
Often, one may view an exchange rate quoted much like the fol-
lowing: 1.5850/53. This type of quote provides fi rst the bid price
and then the ask price as a variation of the bid. In this case, the two
prices are separated by three pips.
These pips represent the spread, which is essentially the payment
made to the broker for services rendered, in lieu of commissions.
With most forex brokers, the spread is manifested immediately on
trade entry. That is, once a trade is entered, whether it is a buy or
sell, the open position immediately displays a running loss equiva-
lent to the magnitude of the spread.
The spread defi cit then needs to be overcome by favorable price
movement before the trader can break even and have the oppor-
tunity to profi t off the position. It should be made clear that this
spread is charged only once on an entire trade cycle, from the open
of the position to the close. Spreads are never charged twice on a
single round -t urn trade.
Most spreads on the major currency pairs, including EUR/USD,
USD/JPY, GBP/USD, and USD/CHF, are usually in the vicinity of
two to fi ve pips wide. Looking back to the previous section on pip
values, we can easily extrapolate the spread cost per trade.
For example, if trading one mini lot of EUR/USD, which may
have a spread of 3 pips with a certain broker, the spread value for
this trade would be USD $ 3.00 (as each pip on a EUR/USD mini
lot is worth USD $ 1.00). This would constitute the primary transac-
tion cost incurred for making the trade.
Generally speaking, spreads can either be variable or fi xed. Many
of the variable - spread brokers will advertise their tight spreads that
40
cc0022..iinndddd 4400 11//1133//0099 99::5566::2211 AAMM

Interest—Giving and Receiving
prevail during quiet markets, but then widen the spreads consider-
ably and without notice during the faster, more volatile markets.
These faster markets usually occur around relatively frequent eco-
nomic news announcements. Widened spreads during trading can
potentially wreak havoc on open and/or pending positions. This
could potentially include missed or prematurely triggered trade
entries, stop losses, profi t limits, or even margin calls.
Fixed - spread brokers, on the other hand, usually offer spreads
that are slightly wider, but then actually keep those spreads fi xed
at a constant level, regardless of market conditions. This offers the
clearly signifi cant advantages of increased price certainty and fewer
surprises. If a trader plans on ever buying and/or selling currencies
during any type of fast market, it may perhaps be in the trader ’s best
interest to choose a fi xed - spread broker.
As for whether spreads or commissions are better, the jury is still
out. As mentioned earlier, spreads and commissions both effectively
represent a transactional payment by a customer for services offered
by a broker. Assuming the amount is comparable, there is little dif-
ference beyond their labels. As of this writing, the vast majority of
forex brokers continue to use the spread model, and this situation
appears unlikely to change signifi cantly within the near - term, fore-
seeable future.
I
nterest — Giving and Receiving
Though spreads are certainly the primary transactional cost in foreign
exchange trading, there can also be a secondary cost that depends
upon the currency pair traded, direction of the trade, and length of
41
cc0022..iinndddd 4411 11//1133//0099 99::5566::2211 AAMM

Basic Foreign Exchange Trading Mechanics
time the position is held. Interestingly enough, this potential second-
ary cost can either be avoided altogether or even turned into a high -
yielding positive. In foreign exchange trading, this phenomenon is
known variously as “s wap, ” “ cost of carry,” or simply “ interest. ”
There is actually an entire trading strategy called c arry trading
that is based on earning highly l everaged, high - yield interest returns
through holding strategic currency positions. This method will
be discussed in - depth in Chapter 5 , which covers specifi c trading
strategies.
For now, though, a simple example will help illustrate the con-
cept of interest in foreign exchange trading. At the time of this writ-
ing, the Reserve Bank of Australia shows a relatively high central
bank interest rate for the Australian dollar at 7.25%. The Bank of
Japan, on the other hand, has kept the rate on the yen very low at
0.50%. The differential between these two rates (6.75%) is where the
potential opportunity, as well as the potential cost, resides.
As described towards the beginning of this chapter in the section
“ Going Long and Selling Short,” if a trader buys the AUD/JPY pair,
that trader is essentially buying the Australian dollar (with the cur-
rently high interest rate) while simultaneously selling the Japanese
yen (with the currently low interest rate). The net effect is that the
position would earn the high rate while paying the low rate. This
creates a net - positive interest yield for the trader that is approxi-
mately based on the rate differential between the two currencies. In
this AUD/JPY example, the yield is based on the c urrent 6.75% dif-
ferential (minus an interest spread cost).
Conversely, if the trader sells the AUD/JPY pair, that trader is
essentially selling the Australian dollar while simultaneously buying
42
cc0022..iinndddd 4422 11//1133//0099 99::5566::2211 AAMM

Interest—Giving and Receiving
the yen. The net effect is that the position would earn the low rate
(JPY) while paying the high rate (AUD). This creates a net - negative
interest defi cit for the trader that is approximately based upon
the rate differential between the two currencies. In this AUD/JPY
example, the defi cit is based upon the current 6.75% differential
(plus an interest spread cost).
Usually, traders would hardly get excited about the prospect of
earning or paying seemingly insignifi cant sums due to interest, espe-
cially within the fast - paced, volatile world of currency trading.
But an extremely key point here that does often succeed in
exciting traders is that the interest earned or paid is based on the
leveraged amount traded, and not just upon the trader ’s fractional
margin amount. In other words, to use the same AUD/JPY exam-
ple, differential - based interest is actually earned or paid on the lev-
eraged A$ 100,000 in the standard lot (100:1) trade, and not just on
the A$ 1000 that the trader puts up in margin to make the trade.
This can have enormous implications for traders who routinely hold
their positions open, as the potential profi t or loss every day due to
interest alone can be very substantial.
Whether the trader pays or earns the interest, it is calculated
daily according to the leveraged net interest rate differential of the
trader ’s open position(s), taking into account the inevitable inter-
est rate spread cost. With most foreign exchange brokers, the daily
amount paid or charged to the trader (depending on the direction
of the position(s), long or short) is added to or subtracted from the
trader ’s account each day when open positions get “ rolled over ” (as
described in Chapter 1 ). This process generally occurs at the same
time every trading day, and is usually at the end of each business day,
43
cc0022..iinndddd 4433 11//1133//0099 99::5566::2211 AAMM

Basic Foreign Exchange Trading Mechanics
but the specifi c time varies among the different foreign exchange
brokers.
Whether a trader seeks to avoid interest charges, gain interest
payments, or neither, it is extremely important to be aware of how
interest may affect all foreign exchange positions.
H
edging— Two Sides of the Same Coin
The fi nal topic for this chapter on basic foreign exchange trading
mechanics may not be quite as basic as the other topics in this chapter.
Hedging is a rather specialized trading function that not every trader
utilizes. In fact, most foreign exchange brokers do not even offer it on
their trading platforms. But if available, hedging can be a useful tool
for those traders who have specifi c strategies for employing it.
To hedge is to be long and short in the same currency pair at
the same time. For example, if a trader buys one lot of USD/JPY
and sells one lot of USD/JPY at the same time, that trader can be
said to be in a perfectly hedged trading situation that is completely
profi t/loss - neutral. In other words, any price movement in the cur-
rency pair— up, down, or sideways — would not exert the least bit of
infl uence on a hedged trade.
So why, then, would a trader utilize a trading functionality that
mimics not taking a position at all? Some traders have developed
strategies — especially those geared toward exploiting news - driven
price spikes— that involve the strategic use of hedging. For the
majority of traders that do not employ hedging, though, it is suf-
fi cient at least to be aware that hedging exists, and that it can poten-
tially be used for protecting a one - sided currency position.
44
cc0022..iinndddd 4444 11//1133//0099 99::5566::2211 AAMM

Chapter Summary
Those brokers that do not offer hedging simply close the origi-
nal one- sided position if an opposite position in the same currency
pair is initiated. For the hedging brokers, however, opposite posi-
tions in the same currency pair are treated as two open positions
that effectively cancel out each other’ s running profi t/loss.
One fi nal note about hedging is that since two exactly oppos-
ing positions are profi t/loss - neutral, and therefore create essentially
a riskless trading scenario, brokers that offer hedging usually require
margin on only one side of the hedge. The other, opposing side is
a margin- free trade. This means that none of the trader’ s trading
equity needs to be used to open and sustain the second leg of a
hedge.
C
hapter Summary
Since currencies are always traded in pairs, their value is determined
by the market on a relative basis rather than an absolute basis. In
forex trading, one currency can only have value if it is compared
and contrasted to another currency. Because of this fact that forex is
all about trading one against another, both going long (buying) and
selling short (selling) always involve betting on one currency while
simultaneously betting against another. So being long EUR/USD
means buying EUR while selling USD, and being short EUR/
USD means selling EUR while buying USD.
There are a few methods for entering into forex trades. A mar-
ket order opens a trade at the current market price. An entry order
places an order to open a trade if price reaches a certain level pre-
determined by the trader. Similar to the way trades are entered, they
45
cc0022..iinndddd 4455 11//1133//0099 99::5566::2222 AAMM

Basic Foreign Exchange Trading Mechanics
can also be exited. This can be accomplished through manually clos-
ing the trade, which is the exiting equivalent of the market order
entry, or through predetermined stop losses and profi t limits.
Factors that affect trading signifi cantly include lot size and lever-
age. Lot size is the actual amount that is being traded, while leverage
is the degree to which a trader’ s fi nancial power can be magnifi ed in
order to control more in a trade with less capital.
A margin call is a safety measure that occurs when a trader no
longer possesses enough equity in the trading account to support
open position(s). In this event, all open positions are automatically
closed at the prevailing market rates, thereby preventing even further
catastrophic account losses.
Pips are the smallest unit of currency movement, and they serve
as the primary measure of profi t or loss in currency trades. Spreads,
which are the main transaction cost incurred by traders when trad-
ing with the vast majority of forex brokers, are measured in pips.
A spread is simply the difference between the price at which a cur-
rency pair is bought and the price at which it is sold. This difference,
which varies with each broker, is automatically deducted once from
each round -t urn trade (open and close).
Interest represents another potential cost of trading, although
traders may also earn interest on their trading positions. Depending
on the specifi c currency pair and the direction in which it is traded
(long or short), interest can either represent a signifi cant expense on
positions that are held overnight, or a way to generate daily income
from holding open trades.
Finally, hedging is a more advanced topic that involves the simul-
taneous buying and selling of the same currency pair at the same
46
cc0022..iinndddd 4466 11//1133//0099 99::5566::2222 AAMM

Chapter Summary
time. When implemented, this creates a situation where any exchange
rate movement will not affect the profi t/loss picture, since one side
of the hedge profi ts as the other side loses by an equal amount.
After this discussion on basic foreign exchange trading mechan-
ics, the next logical step is to explore the features and functionali-
ties of a currency trading platform. This can be accomplished at no
cost simply by signing up for a free demo practice account with any
reputable online forex broker. The best part about this is that a forex
trader can test - drive a trading platform in an extremely thorough
manner, secure in the knowledge that all losses in a practice account
are not only free - of - charge, but also highly educational.
47
cc0022..iinndddd 4477 11//1133//0099 99::5566::2222 AAMM

cc0022..iinndddd 4488 11//1133//0099 99::5566::2222 AAMM

CHAPTER 3
Technical Analysis—
Tools for Trading
Foreign Exchange
After reading this chapter, you will be
able to:
● Apply the primary tools used by technical traders to
analyze the foreign exchange markets .
● Understand the purposes and mechanics of the most
important functional elements of currency charts .
● Delve into the most practical aspects of technical analy-
sis, including pattern recognition, drawing trendlines,
and identifying support and resistance .
49
cc0033..iinndddd 4499 11//1133//0099 99::5599::0022 AAMM

Technical Analysis
I
ntroduction to Technical Analysis—
Interpreting Price Action
Technical analysis is the most popular discipline, or school of fi nan-
cial analysis, for trading the foreign exchange markets. Simply put,
technical analysis is often defi ned as the systematic study of price
action, which is ultimately derived from the effects of mass market
behavior.
While fundamental analysis may concern itself with the myr-
iad reasons w hy price moves, technical analysis is single - mindedly
focused on how price moves, and the ways in which that might affect
future price movement. Technical analysis consists of a broad meth-
odology through which traders can make all of their most important
trading decisions. This includes entries, exits, stop - loss placement,
profi t target placement, trade - sizing, risk management, and more.
The primary toolbox used by foreign exchange technical ana-
lysts in analyzing and interpreting price action is the versatile cur-
rency chart. As we shall soon see, there are several styles of these
toolboxes, including bar charts, candlestick charts, and point & fi g-
ure charts.
Furthermore, within each of these toolboxes is quite a diverse set
of tools. These tools can range anywhere from a simple trendline to
an elaborate chart pattern to a mathematically d erived oscillator to a
complex algorithmic trading system. For the purposes of this book,
however, we will stick to the essentials.
When a beginner is fi rst introduced to using technical analy-
sis for analyzing and trading the foreign exchange markets, there
are invariably several buzzwords and phrases that are heard most
50
cc0033..iinndddd 5500 11//1133//0099 99::5599::0022 AAMM

Introduction to Technical Analysis
frequently. These include such common terms as trend, support/
resistance, moving averages, head - and - shoulders pattern, Fibonacci,
Elliott Wave, and so on. All of these terms, and much more, will be
addressed further on in this chapter.
In the actual practice of technical analysis, however, generally it
is better to keep all of these countless chart elements to a manage-
able minimum in order to avoid the very common beginner ’s epi-
demic of “ paralysis by analysis.” This is where traders clutter their
charts with so many lines and indicators that they become utterly
unable to conduct any useful analysis or to act on any bonafi de sig-
nals from their charts. In the world of technical analysis, too much
of a good thing is just as bad as the opposite extreme of not enough.
To avoid paralysis by analysis, traders should ideally master
a handful of chart elements and become an expert on how price
reacts to these elements. For example, a trader may study in - depth
how a certain currency pair reacts over time in relation to the outer
bands of the popular Bollinger Bands indicator. Or another trader
may wish to become an expert on price behavior around the key
Fibonacci retracement levels. Yet another trader may choose to work
exclusively with trendlines, trading bounces and breakouts of these
dynamic support/resistance levels. There is virtually no end to how
a technical analyst may specialize to become a master of one (or a
few), rather than an unfocused Jack of all Trades.
The primary advantages of technical analysis for the foreign
exchange trader are manifold. This includes the exceptionally pre-
cise trade entries and exits afforded by chart analysis, sensible risk
management through the use of technically d erived stop levels, the
ability to backtest technical strategies using past price action, and
51
cc0033..iinndddd 5511 11//1133//0099 99::5599::0033 AAMM

Technical Analysis
the unambiguous, rule - based nature of many technical trading
systems. These concepts will all be covered in this chapter and in
Chapter 5 , which covers trading methods and strategies.
While technical analysis can be a powerful method for analyz-
ing foreign exchange price movement, it can also be both time-
consuming and incredibly frustrating. This is often the case when
indicators or lines that traders rely upon to provide them with prof-
itable trading signals give false signals, confl icting signals, or just
plain don’ t work. But this should not be a valid reason to abandon
the entire discipline of technical analysis altogether. As alluded to
previously, there is no lack of foreign exchange traders who, through
untiring study and experience, have managed to build successful
trading careers from specializing in just a handful of technical meth-
ods that work well for them.
Therefore, patience and the careful study of technical tools and
methods clearly comprise the path to mastery of technical analysis.
In turn, the mastery of technical analysis may well provide the road
to consistent profi tability in the foreign exchange markets.
B
asics of Bars and Candlesticks
Bars and candlesticks are the primary building blocks of techni-
cal analysis charting. There are several other methods of depicting
price action visually in the foreign exchange markets, including
older techniques that enjoy signifi cant followings like point & fi gure
charts (which will be touched on later in this chapter), but bars and
candlesticks have assumed their vital roles as the main workhorses of
present - day technical analysis.
52
cc0033..iinndddd 5522 11//1133//0099 99::5599::0033 AAMM

Basics of Bars and Candlesticks
Bar charts and candlestick charts share close similarities in that
they both represent the most salient data points available in price
action analysis. Within a given time period, this includes the open
price, the high price, the low price, and the close price. For exam-
ple, a daily chart, where each bar or candlestick represents one full
trading day, will depict the price levels at which a given day opened
and closed, as well as the high and low that were reached during
that day. In the foreign exchange markets, incidentally, a trading day
would consist of a full 24 hours. Exhibit 3.1 shows an example of
both a bar and a candlestick.
As shown in Exhibit 3.1 , a bar opens at the level of the left hor-
izontal arm and closes at the level of the right horizontal arm. The
top of the vertical bar represents that period ’s high, while the bot-
tom represents the low.
In contrast, a candlestick places much heavier emphasis on the
open and close of a particular period by making the space between
EXHIBIT 3.1
Bar and Candlestick Diagram
Highest price during time period
Period close price (on bar right)
Bar
Period open price (on bar left)
Lowest price during time period
Highest price during time period
Period open or close price
Real body is white (or green) if
Candlestick currency closed higher and black
(or red) if it closed lower
Period open or close price
Lowest price during time period
53
cc0033..iinndddd 5533 11//1133//0099 99::5599::0033 AAMM

Technical Analysis
the open and close exceptionally prominent. This space is called the
“ real body. ” The vertical lines above and below are called “ shadows ”
or “ wicks. ” If the real body is white (or green), it means that it was a
bullish candle, and that price opened at the bottom of the real body
and closed at the top of the real body. If, on the other hand, the real
EXECUTIVE INSIGHT
Steve Nison
The most authoritative voice on the subject of candlesticks would
certainly be Steve Nison, CMT. But besides having introduced the
entire concept of Japanese candlesticks to the English- speaking
world, Nison has also been a renowned expert on Western- style
technical analysis for over three decades. Therefore, he brings
a unique perspective that straddles both Eastern and Western
methods of charting. Widely quoted in the major fi nancial press
as one of the world’ s foremost technical analysts, Nison authored
the defi nitive book on the subject of candlesticks, J apanese
Candlestick Charting Techniques, and is the founder and President
of CandleCharts.com.
Nison states:
“ Warren Buffett said he would be a bum in the street with
a tin cup if the markets were always effi cient. And why
aren ’t the markets effi cient? It ’s because of human emo-
tions such as fear, greed, and hope. And the only way to
gauge the emotional and psychological aspects of market
participants is technical analysis. Bernard Baruch, one
of most famous economists of the 20th century stated,
‘ It ’s not the news itself, but it is the market ’s reaction to
the news that’ s important.’ And for those who watch the
forex market we know that many times an ounce of emo-
tion can be worth a pound of facts.
54
cc0033..iinndddd 5544 11//1133//0099 99::5599::0033 AAMM

Basics of Bars and Candlesticks
EXECUTIVE INSIGHT (CONTINUED)
The reason I ’ m spending time on the importance of
market psychology is that the candlesticks— which I refer
to as candles— is one of the best methods to get a quick
visual grasp of who’ s winning in the ongoing battle of the
bulls versus the bears. While very easy to construct,
the candles provide an x- ray into the supply/demand
situation. As the Japanese proverb states, ‘ Look at the
outside and know the inside.’ Think about the candle
line. A tall white real body means the bulls are in charge
during that session— whether it ’s an intraday, daily,
or weekly. A long black real body hints the bears are in
force. A doji (where the open and close are the same)
clearly refl ects a market in balance between the bulls and
bears. And if a doji emerges during a rally, it increases
the chances of a turn. A hammer, with its extended long
lower shadow, is visually proving the market is reject-
ing lower levels. So on this one session it means that
the bears are getting less confi dent because the market
can ’t hold the lows into the close, while the bulls are get-
ting more optimistic. In essence, the candlestick line is
drawn based on the psychological underpinning of current
market activity. And by reading the candles correctly you
are reading the market ’s message.
As the author mentions in this chapter, I recom-
mend using candles as just one of the tools in a trading
arsenal. However, after you gain the knowledge of how
to correctly and fully harness the insight of the candles
you ’l l fi nd that they will become one of your most impor-
tant tools. At my live seminars, where I have taught thou-
sands of retail and institutional traders, I often ask at the
conclusion, ‘ Who would ever go back to a bar chart? ’ No
one has ever raised a hand. ”
55
cc0033..iinndddd 5555 11//1133//0099 99::5599::0044 AAMM

Technical Analysis
body is black (or red), it means that it was a bearish candle, and that
price opened at the top of the real body and closed at the bottom of
the real body.
In both the U.S. equities and futures markets, bar charts have
traditionally been the primary mode of representing price action
for technical analysis purposes. Only in the past decade or so have
candlestick charts come into popular usage in the Western world,
largely through the efforts of Steve Nison, who introduced this
ancient charting method to America from its humble rice- trading
roots in Japan.
The main difference between bars and candlesticks lies in their
differing visual portrayals of identical price data points. Therefore,
although both charting methodologies utilize the same data, which
includes the open, high, low, and close price of a given time period,
the manner in which this information is represented differs signifi -
cantly between the two. While bars may reveal all of the usual support/
resistance indications and chart patterns that Western technical analysts
normally look for, candlesticks go a step further by including all of this
relevant information plus providing a unique visual interpretation of
the struggle between bulls (buyers) and bears (sellers).
Furthermore, while there are numerous popular chart patterns
that are commonly associated with bar charts (e.g., head - and - shoulder,
double tops, triangles, fl ags, and pennants, among many others), can-
dlestick charts include all of these formations, plus incorporate an
additional library of imaginatively n amed chart patterns like “ morn-
ing star, ” “h ammer,” and “h anging man,” among many others. All of
these patterns for both bar and candlestick charts will be explained
later in this chapter.
56
cc0033..iinndddd 5566 11//1133//0099 99::5599::0044 AAMM

Keeping Time with Chart Timeframes
K
eeping Time with Chart Timeframes
While the structures of bars and candlesticks are relatively straight-
forward, these stick shapes would mean very little from an analytical
perspective without the vital element of time. On both bar and can-
dlestick charts, the vertical y- axis represents the price of one currency
in a pair against the other, while the horizontal x - axis represents time
moving forward from left to right. This is illustrated in Exhibit 3 .2 .
Point & fi gure (p &f ) charts are the notable exception to this pre-
vailing axis structure, as they do not include the time element. But
these unique p& f charts will be touched upon in more detail later
on in this chapter.
EXHIBIT 3.2
Chart with Labeled x - axis and y - axis
Source: FX Solutions – FX AccuCharts
57
cc0033..iinndddd 5577 11//1133//0099 99::5599::0044 AAMM

Technical Analysis
Most charting software allows traders to choose from a wide
variety of timeframes for bar and candlestick charts. This choice
is critical for numerous reasons. Most importantly, it dictates how
much time is contained in each bar or candlestick. For example,
in a daily chart, each bar has a duration of exactly one day, or 24
hours. A fi ve- minute candlestick, on the other hand, has a duration
of exactly fi ve minutes. It is crucial for traders to know exactly what
timeframe is being viewed at all times, as there are differing strate-
gies for long -t erm, medium - term, and short - term trading.
Another reason that the timeframe holds so much importance is
that it determines how much price action can practically be viewed
at one time. Longer - term charts like daily, weekly, and monthly
timeframes can comfortably include price action visuals going back
many years or decades. Displaying price action spanning more than
a few days for one - or fi ve- minute charts, on the other hand, would
quickly become unwieldy.
Yet another reason timeframes are so critical lies in the very
nature of technical analysis itself. It is certainly true that chart pat-
terns are generally fractal, which means that these patterns can be
found on all chart timeframes. But from a practical trading perspec-
tive, trends and patterns are usually much more reliable on longer -
term charts like daily and higher, rather than shorter - term charts
like the intraday hourly and minute charts. This is partly due to the
fact that directionless volatility, or noise, that usually defi es all tech-
nical analysis efforts, is much more prevalent on shorter - term charts.
Chart timeframes should therefore be chosen with a great deal
of care. Of course, many traders choose to view and analyze multiple
58
cc0033..iinndddd 5588 11//1133//0099 99::5599::0055 AAMM

Support for Resistance (and Support)
timeframes simultaneously in order to identify trend confi rmations
and/or confl icts. This type of trading approach will be discussed in
Chapter 5 , which covers trading methods and strategies.
Popular timeframes used by foreign exchange traders include
(in ascending order of duration): 1- minute, 5 - minute, 10 - minute,
15 - minute, 30 - minute, 1 - hour, 2 - hour, 3 - hour, 4 - hour, 12 - hour, daily,
weekly, and monthly. There are also multitick timeframes, where
each bar or candlestick contains a certain number of ticks (mini-
mum incremental movements in price), but these are not nearly as
popular as the abovementioned standard duration timeframes.
S
upport for Resistance (and Support)
Now that basic chart structure has been established, the real “ meat
and potatoes ” of technical analysis can be discussed, and there is no
better place to begin than with support and resistance. Besides the
notion of trend, which will be discussed in the next section,
the twin concepts of support and resistance are at the core of tech-
nical analysis. Their explanation is rather simple, yet their signifi -
cance is far - reaching.
Support and resistance are two parts of one whole. They can
also be considered polar opposites. Support is simply defi ned as the
recurring upward price “ pressure ” found at relatively lower prices,
while resistance is the recurring downward price “ pressure ” found at
relatively higher prices. These upward and downward pressures have
a number of hypothetical causes, many of which are purported to
relate closely with mass trader psychology.
59
cc0033..iinndddd 5599 11//1133//0099 99::5599::0055 AAMM

Technical Analysis
Without delving into the theoretical underpinnings of the col-
lective trader psyche, however, the concepts of support and resist-
ance are often considered simply to stem from market participants ’
price memory, among other factors. This idea will be explored
briefl y here.
From a price memory perspective, sustainable support and resist-
ance levels will occur because traders remember specifi c price lev-
els, and will base their trading decisions on whether they consider
these levels as relatively high or relatively low. The most basic ten-
dency is for traders to buy at price levels they consider relatively
low (support) and to sell at price levels they consider relatively high
(resistance).
When a majority of traders collectively believe that a certain
price level or region is relatively low, buying pressure will often result
and the price should generally go up, thereby creating a “ bounce up
off support.” Conversely, when a majority of traders believe that a
certain price level or region is relatively high, selling pressure will
often result and the price should generally go down, thereby creating
a “ bounce down off resistance. ”
For an example of resistance, if the price region surrounding
1.6000 on the EUR/USD is considered collectively by traders to
be relatively high (which, as of this writing, is the case), traders
without positions in the market may wish to sell short the pair if
this level is reached, with the intention to profi t by buying back
(or covering) later at a lower price. By the same token, traders with
existing long positions in the pair may also wish to sell at this level,
effectively closing their positions and taking their profi ts. All of
this selling activity places downward pressure at this 1.6000 level,
60
cc0033..iinndddd 6600 11//1133//0099 99::5599::0055 AAMM

Support for Resistance (and Support)
thereby c reating signifi cant resistance in the form of a “ ceiling ” on
price action. The expectation, then, is that when price reaches a
signifi cant resistance level, it will turn and go back down at that
level.
If, on the other hand, the price region surrounding 95.00 on the
USD/JPY is considered collectively by traders to be relatively low,
traders without positions in the market may wish to buy the pair
if this level is reached, with the intention to profi t by selling their
positions later at a higher price. And traders with existing short posi-
tions in the pair may also wish to buy back (or cover) at this level,
effectively closing their positions and taking their profi ts. All of this
buying activity places upward pressure at this 95.00 level, thereby
creating signifi cant support in the form of a “ fl oor” on price action.
The expectation, then, is that when price reaches a signifi cant sup-
port level, it will turn and go back up at that level.
Sideways price action between both a support fl oor and a resist-
ance ceiling is called a trading range, as displayed in Exhibit 3.3 .
These occur quite often in the foreign exchange markets. Many
currency traders exploit breakouts or breakdowns of low volatility
trading ranges as one of their primary trade entry tactics. This will
be discussed further in Chapter 5 , which covers trading methods
and strategies.
The simple fact that support and resistance levels are often
respected by price numerous times before ultimately being broken
is, in itself, a remarkable phenomenon that can contribute a great
deal to any foreign exchange trader ’s strategy. Therefore, whenever
price nears historically signifi cant support or resistance levels, trad-
ers and analysts will invariably begin paying close attention to the
61
cc0033..iinndddd 6611 11//1133//0099 99::5599::0055 AAMM

Technical Analysis
EXHIBIT 3.3
Trading Range Support and Resistance
Source: FX Solutions – FX AccuCharts
action, waiting for the level in question either to be respected or
broken. These traders and analysts will then act accordingly.
Another important aspect of traders’ collective price memory as
it relates to the concept of support and resistance lies in the extraor-
dinary tendency for a support/resistance level to transform into the
opposite, once broken. For example, when price breaks out above a
previous resistance level, technical analysts and traders would then
consider that broken resistance level as a new support level. By the
same token, when price breaks down below a previous support level,
technical analysts and traders would then consider that broken sup-
port level as a new resistance level.
62
cc0033..iinndddd 6622 11//1133//0099 99::5599::0055 AAMM

Support for Resistance (and Support)
The most plausible reason for this phenomenon, from a tech-
nical analysis perspective, is that once a currency pair breaks a
support/resistance level in a convincing manner, traders begin to
believe that the pair has reached a whole new plateau of price activ-
ity. Therefore, mass trader momentum will move away from the pre-
vious price level, towards equilibrium at this new norm. The border
between the old plateau and the new one is the broken support/
resistance zone, and it will therefore be expected to act as a future
price barrier.
For example, if the GBP/USD breaks out and remains above a
highly signifi cant resistance level that represents a multi decade high,
say at 2.1160 (as of this writing), traders will begin to believe that
the pair will continue to move within this new, higher plateau. This is
because it would be such a technically rare feat to break this lofty level
that price must be trending up with extremely strong momentum. So
when the level is fi nally broken, if price ever subsequently went back
down to revisit that broken resistance line around 2.1160, it would
signal a relatively low price, and therefore a good place to buy at sup-
port. And when a lot of major market participants all decide to buy at
support, it can be manifested in price action as a bounce up off sup-
port. This phenomenon can be seen in Exhibit 3 .4 .
Of course, as with every aspect of technical analysis (or any other
analysis, for that matter), this tendency does not always work out
as expected. But the phenomenon is realized frequently enough in
the foreign exchange markets to warrant serious consideration. The
expectation that support becomes resistance, and resistance becomes
support, is one of the central themes of the support/ resistance con-
cept, as well as of technical analysis as a whole.
63
cc0033..iinndddd 6633 11//1133//0099 99::5599::0066 AAMM

Technical Analysis
EXHIBIT 3.4
Resistance Becomes Support
Source: FX Solutions – FX AccuCharts
T
he Trend Will Set You Free
Even more important to the practice of technical analysis than sup-
port and resistance is the concept of trend. Knowing the trend at
any given time is absolutely essential to analyzing charts effectively.
Though this may appear to be a simple thing, there are plenty of
nuances in identifying trends that make it an art unto itself.
One of the major complexities involved in determining whether
the trend is up or down has to do with timeframes, as presented
earlier in this chapter. On a long - term monthly bar chart of AUD/
USD, for example, where each bar is the equivalent of one month
of price action, the prevailing trend may be unmistakably up. At the
64
cc0033..iinndddd 6644 11//1133//0099 99::5599::0066 AAMM

The Trend Will Set You Free
same time, the medium- term daily chart might show that the cur-
rent trend is down. In turn, the short - term hourly chart may be
indicating an uptrend. And the ultra- short - term minute chart may
be hinting at a downtrend. Up - down - up - down — which timeframe
is indicating the correct trend direction for the currency pair?
The answer depends entirely upon which timeframe(s) a par-
ticular trader is accustomed to trading. It may well be true that the
longer timeframes offer more reliable trend indications, as shorter
timeframes tend to include a lot of market noise, or minor price
fl uctuations that have very little to do with the overall trend. At
the same time, however, a short - term intraday trader might well
be advised to ignore price action on the weekly chart entirely. The
long - term trend is virtually irrelevant to the shortest - term intraday
trader. Likewise, a long - term position trader can certainly ignore the
intraday price movements on a 5 - minute chart.
A potential method that can be used for dealing with trends and
timeframes is to concentrate on the trend indicated by a timeframe
4 – 6 times longer than the one traded. For example, if a trader is
accustomed to analyzing a 1- hour chart for trades, the 4- hour chart
(4 times the length of the 1 - hour chart) would be used to indicate
the trend. And if a trader is accustomed to analyzing a 4 - hour chart
for trades, the daily chart (6 times the length of the 4 - hour chart)
would be used to indicate the trend. Finally, if a trader is accustomed
to analyzing a daily chart for trades, the weekly chart (5 times the
length of the daily chart) would be used to indicate the trend.
Once the overall, longer - term trend is identifi ed, many foreign
exchange traders wisely follow the oft- repeated dictum that all trades
should always be in the direction of the prevailing trend. Although
65
cc0033..iinndddd 6655 11//1133//0099 99::5599::0066 AAMM

Technical Analysis
there are certainly a substantial number of successful counter trend
technical traders in the foreign exchange markets, there are arguably
more successful traders that are of the trend- following persuasion.
Besides the issue of timeframe- compatibility in identifying
trends, the larger question remains as to how a trend is inherently
defi ned. If price movement consisted of a straight line either up or
down, identifying a trend would obviously be too simple. In reality,
currency prices move around incessantly, often denying the techni-
cal analyst an easy trend read.
There are primarily three modes of price movement that can be
readily identifi ed. They are uptrend mode, downtrend mode, and non-
trending (sideways) mode. Remember that in the foreign exchange
markets, an uptrend is simultaneously an uptrend for the base cur-
rency (fi rst currency in the pair) and a downtrend for the quote
currency (second currency in the pair). Conversely, a downtrend for
a currency pair is simultaneously a downtrend for the base currency
and an uptrend for the quote currency. Because non t rending mode,
by defi nition, is not an integral part of a discussion on trends, it will
be disregarded here.
Ideally, an uptrend is characterized by progressively higher lows
and higher highs in price. An ideal downtrend, conversely, is charac-
terized by progressively lower highs and lower lows. A low is con-
sidered a point of reversal between a downmove and an upmove.
A high is considered a point of reversal between an upmove and a
downmove.
Trends can be measured and evaluated with a number of tools,
including trendlines, trend channels, moving averages, Average
Directional Index (ADX), Directional Movement Index (DMI),
66
cc0033..iinndddd 6666 11//1133//0099 99::5599::0066 AAMM

How Trendy—Lines and Channels
Elliott Wave, and others. These will all be discussed later in this
chapter.
Although there are certainly idealistic conditions for the forma-
tion of uptrends and downtrends, in practice it can be diffi cult to
fi nd sustained trends that conform perfectly to these requirements
(higher lows and highs for uptrends, and lower highs and lows for
downtrends). Much more frequently, traders and analysts fi nd on
their charts uptrends that are only required to hit higher lows, and
downtrends that are only required to hit lower highs. Thus, we have
the terms, uptrend support and downtrend resistance. By defi ni-
tion, these two concepts comprise the technical analysis supertool
for evaluating trends — the trendline. In turn, the trendline comprises
half of another vitally important tool in trend analysis— the parallel
trend channel.
H
ow Trendy — Lines and Channels
Besides the ubiquitous horizontal support and resistance lines
touched upon earlier in this chapter, trendlines and channels remain
among the most utilized weapons in the technical analysis arsenal.
There are almost as many ways to draw trendlines as there are trad-
ers using them in their analysis. Over time, there have also emerged
countless new methodologies for drawing and interpreting these
lines. But the traditional manner of constructing trendlines remains
clear and focused. One would connect progressively higher lows (at
least two, but preferably more) for an uptrend, as in Exhibit 3.5 . In
a similar manner, one would connect progressively lower highs (at
least two, but preferably more) for a downtrend, as in Exhibit 3.6 .
67
cc0033..iinndddd 6677 11//1133//0099 99::5599::0077 AAMM

Technical Analysis
EXHIBIT 3.5
Uptrend Line
Source: FX Solutions – FX AccuCharts
The practical applications of trendlines can be enormously useful
for the foreign exchange trader. In fact, there is a whole contingent
of traders that prefers to use trendline analysis almost exclusively in
dictating trading decisions. Trendlines can be used to pinpoint break-
out entries, pullback entries, prudent stoplosses, and optimal profi t
targets. Though there can often be excessive subjectivity in their
construction and interpretation, trendlines have withstood the test of
time as an integral component of many of the most profi table trading
strategies. These will be discussed in more detail in Chapter 5.
If a trendline supplies just the fl oor for an uptrend, the parallel
uptrend channel provides the ceiling as well. By the same token, if a
68
cc0033..iinndddd 6688 11//1133//0099 99::5599::0077 AAMM

How Trendy—Lines and Channels
EXHIBIT 3.6
Downtrend Line
Source: FX Solutions – FX AccuCharts
trendline supplies just the ceiling for a downtrend, the parallel down-
trend channel provides the fl oor as well. Price action that truly fi ts
comfortably into the borders of a parallel trend channel upholds the
highest ideals of a true trend. This is because, for example, an uptrend
that fi ts well into a parallel uptrend channel will contain both higher
lows and higher highs (see Exhibit 3.7 ). At the same time, a down-
trend that fi ts well into a parallel downtrend channel will contain both
lower highs and lower lows (see Exhibit 3.8 ). This is in contrast to the
single trendline, which requires price only to fulfi ll half of the ideal.
One caveat regarding the parallel trend channel is that it often
encourages traders to trade against the trend. In an uptrend channel,
69
cc0033..iinndddd 6699 11//1133//0099 99::5599::0077 AAMM

Technical Analysis
EXHIBIT 3.7
Parallel Uptrend Channel
Source: FX Solutions – FX AccuCharts
for example, with support on the bottom line and resistance on the
top, many traders are tempted not only to enter long on the bottom,
but also to enter short on the top. A long entry on the bottom of an
uptrend channel is a trade in the direction of the trend, while a short
entry at the top of that same uptrend channel is a counter t rend trade.
Though counter t rend trading is by no means a taboo practice, and it
can often prove to be a profi table trading style for experienced trad-
ers, it is probably best for newer traders to stick to trading with the
trend. According to strict trend t raders, the top of an uptrend chan-
nel should be used exclusively for profi t- taking on longs, rather than
entering short trades against the direction of the trend.
70
cc0033..iinndddd 7700 11//1133//0099 99::5599::0077 AAMM

How Trendy—Lines and Channels
EXHIBIT 3.8
Parallel Downtrend Channel
Source: FX Solutions – FX AccuCharts
Another word of caution regarding channels relates to breakouts.
Many beginning traders will treat breakouts on both sides of a trend
channel as similar events. This could not be further from the truth.
In a parallel uptrend channel, for example, a breakdown below the
uptrend support line represents a potential change in trend that is
generally considered a highly signifi cant and potentially actionable
event. A breakout above the top line of the uptrend channel, on the
other hand, is much less of an important or actionable event from
a trading perspective. This type of breakout merely represents an
acceleration of the trend, which frequently meets eventual failure as
71
cc0033..iinndddd 7711 11//1133//0099 99::5599::0088 AAMM

Technical Analysis
momentum becomes exhausted. All of the above also holds true, but
in reverse, for the parallel downtrend channel.
T
he Magic of Moving Averages
As noted previously, the prevailing trend can be indicated by sev-
eral different technical tools. Trendlines and channels are the most
prevalent, but they can be very subjective. Moving averages also
show trend direction well, and they are much less subjective because
they are mathematically derived. Therefore, they do not require the
trader to use nearly as much human judgment in construction or
interpretation. By no means, however, does this make moving aver-
ages better than trendlines — they are just different.
Moving averages dynamically calculate the average price of a
currency pair over a defi ned number of past periods. For example,
on a daily chart (where each bar is worth one 24 - hour period), a
20 - period simple moving average (SMA) adds the daily close
prices for the last 20 days and divides by 20. This calculation sim-
ply results in the average, or mean, price for the last 20 days. But
when this average is continuously calculated every single day (hence
the term “ moving ” in moving average), it results in a dynamic line
that follows price, and can effectively describe the trend. Exhibit 3 .9
shows a good example of a 20 - period moving average expressing the
overall trend.
One major weakness of moving averages that is often cited by
traders and analysts is the fact that they invariably lag, or follow, price.
Moving averages, therefore, can never be predictive, as price always
arrives where it will arrive well before any moving average could.
72
cc0033..iinndddd 7722 11//1133//0099 99::5599::0088 AAMM

The Magic of Moving Averages
EXHIBIT 3.9
20 - Period Moving Average
Source: FX Solutions – FX AccuCharts
Consequently, although moving averages can certainly do a good
job of describing a current trend, they are extremely lacking when
it comes to signaling changes in trends. Many analysts and traders
throughout the decades have attempted to address this shortcoming
by creating new ways of calculating these important indicators.
As a result, there are three primary types of moving averages that
are in the most common use today, which are all distinct from each
other by their mathematical constructs. The three types are as fol-
lows: the simple moving average (SMA), the weighted moving aver-
age (WMA), and the exponential moving average (EMA). Without
delving into the source of their mathematical distinctions, suffi ce it
73
cc0033..iinndddd 7733 11//1133//0099 99::5599::0088 AAMM

Technical Analysis
to say that SMAs assign equal weight to all of the data in the defi ned
period, while WMAs and EMAs assign greater weight to the most
recent price data in the defi ned period.
WMAs and EMAs came about partly as an attempt to combat
the lagging nature of SMA signals. In practical use, however, this
lagging effect has been mitigated only to a minor degree. Perhaps
it is safe to say that moving averages will always lag price, and there
is not much that anyone can do about it.
Lag notwithstanding, however, moving averages can certainly be
useful tools in helping to simplify price action for trading purposes.
EXHIBIT 3.10
Crossovers of Price and One Moving
Average
Source: FX Solutions – FX AccuCharts
74
cc0033..iinndddd 7744 11//1133//0099 99::5599::0099 AAMM

The Magic of Moving Averages
This is accomplished primarily through the use of moving a verage
crossovers. In the world of moving averages, a crossover can be
defi ned in a number of different ways.
The most basic crossover, as shown in Exhibit 3.10 , involves the
intersection of price and a single moving average. If price crosses
above the moving average, it would represent a possible opportunity
to buy the currency pair. If, on the other hand, price crosses below
the moving average, it would signify a possible sell, or short.
The second type of crossover, as shown in Exhibit 3.11 , is prob-
ably the most commonly used moving average strategy. It involves
the use of two moving averages of different periods, say 5 and 20,
EXHIBIT 3.11
Crossovers of Two Moving Averages
Source: FX Solutions – FX AccuCharts
75
cc0033..iinndddd 7755 11//1133//0099 99::5599::1100 AAMM

Technical Analysis
for example. If the shorter-period moving average crosses above the
longer one, it would be considered a signal to buy. Conversely, if
the shorter moving average crosses below the longer one, it would
be considered a signal to sell.
The third primary type of moving average crossover involves the
use of three moving averages. This method of using multiple con-
fi rming lines attempts to help combat the unprofi table whipsaw
action that often results from non t rending, sideways markets. Systems
using three different moving averages usually produce signals when
the shortest period moving average crosses both longer moving aver-
ages, or when the shortest moving average crosses the middle one
and then the middle one subsequently crosses the longest.
Most moving average trading systems are generally always in the
market. This means that after each trade is opened on a crossover
and then closed on an opposite crossover, another trade is immedi-
ately opened in the opposite direction to take the place of the previ-
ous trade. Therefore, there is always at least one trade open, whether
long or short, depending on the prevailing crossover signal.
As just mentioned, beginning traders should be forewarned
that although crossover signals can often be exceptionally profi ta-
ble, those traders that use them must be prepared for frequent losses
resulting from common whipsaw action. Whipsaws occur regard-
less of however many moving averages and confi rmation crossovers
happen to be utilized in a given trading system. The most common
whipsaws occur when crossovers occur incessantly because of non -
trending, sideways price action (as shown in Exhibit 3.12 ). This type
of price choppiness almost always results in multiple false crossover
signals with little to no follow- through, and consequently a string of
76
cc0033..iinndddd 7766 11//1133//0099 99::5599::1111 AAMM

The Magic of Moving Averages
EXHIBIT 3.12
Crossover Whipsaws
Source: FX Solutions – FX AccuCharts
many small losses. Like its close cousin, the lag, the whipsaw is sim-
ply an unavoidable fact of trading with moving averages.
The idea behind moving average trading methods, therefore,
centers on the goal of gaining large profi ts during trending periods
when crossovers are few and far between — while at the same time
withstanding the inevitable small losses during sideways whipsaw
periods when crossovers are abundant. The greatest challenge with
this type of trading lies in the ability of the trader to let the winning
trades run while immediately closing losing trades. Only in this way
can a trader using moving averages profi t enough during trends to
offset the many losses incurred during horizontal price activity, and
77
cc0033..iinndddd 7777 11//1133//0099 99::5599::1111 AAMM

Technical Analysis
eventually come out ahead. This and other trend-trading strategies
will be discussed further in Chapter 5.
S
eeing Patterns in the Candles
While moving averages and trendlines are meant to give an indica-
tion of trend direction for a long series of candles or bars, candle-
stick patterns reveal the battle between bulls and bears on only one
or a few candles. As mentioned earlier in this chapter, candlesticks
and their patterns were introduced by Steve Nison, who brought
this ancient charting method to America from its humble rice-
trading roots in Japan.
One of the primary differences between bars and candlesticks
lies in the imaginative interpretation of candle patterns, which are
labeled with equally imaginative names. Most candlestick patterns
are considered either price reversal formations or patterns indicat-
ing indecision, while only a few are considered trend continuation
formations.
Before moving onto a presentation of the most common and
important candlestick patterns developed in Japan, it should be
noted that these patterns were never meant to comprise a complete
trading system. Rather, most high - level practitioners of candlestick
analysis, including Nison himself, state emphatically that candle pat-
terns are intended either to confi rm or be confi rmed by other tech-
nical studies. In other words, candle patterns should not be relied
upon exclusively to provide the full technical picture. That being
said, candle patterns can contribute a great deal of insight to any
technician ’s analytical process.
78
cc0033..iinndddd 7788 11//1133//0099 99::5599::1111 AAMM

Seeing Patterns in the Candles
Following are illustrations and explanations of some of the most
common candlestick patterns found in the foreign exchange mar-
kets. Several patterns, like the morning star and evening star, are
omitted because of their relative lack of compatibility with cur-
rency charts. In this case, a morning/evening star depends on a
gap between candle opens/closes, which, in the 24 - hour foreign
exchange market, is relatively rare.
Exhibit 3 .13 illustrates the most common single- candle patterns
used in forex trading.
A doji forms when a currency pair’ s open and close are either
equal or close to equal. After the doji opens, price may go up and/or
down substantially, but should close at or near the open price. This
pattern represents indecision, or a tug- of - war, between the pair ’s buy-
ers and sellers. Only with additional technical confi rmation could a
doji be considered the beginnings of a price reversal.
EXHIBIT 3.13
Single - Candle Patterns
Hammer
Doji Spinning
Top
Shooting
Hanging
Inverted Star
Man
Hammer
79
cc0033..iinndddd 7799 11//1133//0099 99::5599::1111 AAMM

Technical Analysis
Another sign of indecision similar to the doji is the spinning top.
A spinning top has a very small real body with upper and lower
shadows that are longer than the length of the real body.
Hammers occur after downtrends, and signify a potential reversal.
A hammer is top- heavy with the real body, and has a long lower
shadow. The color of the real body is not important.
A hanging man looks identical to a hammer, but occurs after an
uptrend. Just like the hammer, a hanging man is top - heavy with the
real body, and has a long lower shadow. It also signifi es a potential
reversal, and the color of the real body is unimportant.
An inverted hammer is naturally the opposite of a hammer. Like
the hammer, the inverted hammer also occurs after downtrends, sig-
nifi es a potential reversal, and has a body color that is not vital to the
integrity of the pattern. However, an inverted hammer looks like an
upside -d own hammer in that it is bottom - heavy with the real body,
and has a long upper shadow.
In a similar manner, a shooting star is the opposite of a hang-
ing man. Like the hanging man, the shooting star also occurs after
uptrends, signifi es a potential reversal, and has a body color that is
not vital to the integrity of the pattern. However, a shooting star
looks like an upside - down hanging man in that it is bottom- heavy
with the real body, and has a long upper shadow.
With the most common single - candle patterns in forex covered,
Exhibit 3.14 illustrates the most common multiple- candle patterns
used in forex trading.
The bullish engulfi ng pattern is a bullish reversal pattern that
usually occurs after a downtrend. Unlike the single - candle patterns
described above, the bullish engulfi ng pattern is a two - candle pattern.
80
cc0033..iinndddd 8800 11//1133//0099 99::5599::1122 AAMM

Seeing Patterns in the Candles
EXHIBIT 3.14
Multiple - Candle Patterns
Bullish Engulfing Bearish Engulfing
Harami
It consists of a small bearish body on the fi rst candle, followed by a
large bullish body on the next candle that completely encompasses
the small body’ s vertical range. This is considered a signifi cant down-
trend reversal pattern.
Like the bullish engulfi ng pattern, the bearish engulfi ng pattern
is also a reversal pattern. However, a bearish engulfi ng pattern usu-
ally occurs after an uptrend. It consists of a small bullish body on the
fi rst candle, followed by a large bearish body on the next candle that
completely encompasses the small body’ s vertical range. This is con-
sidered a signifi cant uptrend reversal pattern.
The opposite of an engulfi ng pattern is a harami, which con-
sists of a large body followed by a smaller, encompassed body of the
opposite color. Therefore, a harami can either be a large bullish can-
dle followed by a small bearish candle, or a large bearish candle fol-
lowed by a small bullish candle. Like engulfi ng patterns, haramis are
also considered reversal indicators.
81
cc0033..iinndddd 8811 11//1133//0099 99::5599::1122 AAMM

Technical Analysis
Of course, there are many other multiple - candle patterns. But
as mentioned previously, some depend upon gaps between candles,
which are relatively rare in the 24 - hour foreign exchange market.
The basic candlestick patterns described in this chapter occur often
on currency charts, and are therefore the best starting place for
learning and practicing candlestick analysis.
C
urrency Charts Take Shape
Unlike candlestick patterns, traditional Western chart patterns usually
take the form of shapes that develop over a relatively long series of
bars or candles. Some of these shapes have been analyzed and traded
by technical analysts almost since the advent of fi nancial charting.
Commonly, when most people think of charts and technical anal-
ysis, they often think of perhaps the most popular pattern, head-
and - shoulders. Although the head- and - shoulders formation can be
a solid, reliable pattern, there are a whole host of other potentially
profi table patterns that many traders use on an extensive basis.
Chart patterns can be classifi ed by their most common role,
whether as a continuation pattern or a reversal pattern. Of course,
a continuation pattern will not always act as a continuation pattern.
It may sometimes act as a reversal pattern. The same is true for pat-
terns that are commonly considered reversal patterns. But for the
purposes of classifi cation, these patterns can be divided according to
their most common behavior.
For the vast majority of chart patterns, the technical analyst or
trader looks either for breakouts to the upside or breakdowns to the
downside. Once these patterns are broken, it is usually considered
82
cc0033..iinndddd 8822 11//1133//0099 99::5599::1122 AAMM

Currency Charts Take Shape
a trigger to trade in the direction of the break. Often, the break is
false, and price will quickly return into the pattern from whence it
broke. But that is where proper risk management comes in. It is easy
to know where to place a stop loss on a break of a pattern. Wherever
the break is deemed false or no longer valid (usually back on the side
before the break), is where the stop loss should be placed. This will be
explained further in the section of Chapter 6 on risk management.
The basic structure of the most common chart patterns in for-
eign exchange trading will be described here. Further information
on trading chart patterns can be found in Chapter 5.
To begin with, Exhibit 3.15 shows illustrations of the most com-
mon reversal patterns.
Double tops and bottoms are both considered classic reversal
formations. As its name implies, the double top occurs when price
hits the same or similar price high twice consecutively after a major
uptrend. The two peaks are separated by a trough. The signal to
EXHIBIT 3.15
Reversal Chart Patterns
Double Triple Head-and-
Top Top Shoulders Top
Double Triple Head-and-
Bottom Bottom Shoulders Bottom
83
cc0033..iinndddd 8833 11//1133//0099 99::5599::1122 AAMM

Technical Analysis
sell short comes on a subsequent breakdown of the lowest point
in the trough (support). The double bottom occurs when price
hits the same or similar price low twice consecutively after a major
downtrend. The two troughs are separated by a peak. The signal to
buy comes on a subsequent breakout of the highest point in the
peak (resistance).
Triple tops and bottoms are also considered classic reversal for-
mations. The triple top occurs when price hits the same or simi-
lar price high three times consecutively after a major uptrend. The
peaks are separated by troughs. The signal to sell short comes on a
subsequent breakdown of the lowest trough (support). The triple
bottom occurs when price hits the same or similar price low three
times consecutively after a major downtrend. The troughs are sepa-
rated by peaks. The signal to buy comes on a subsequent breakout of
the highest peak (resistance).
The well - known head - and - shoulders reversal pattern is simi-
lar to the triple top/bottom patterns. The primary difference lies in
the middle of the pattern. For example, in a head - and - shoulders
top, the middle peak (the head) is higher than the other two peaks
(the shoulders). In an inverted head - and - shoulders bottom, on the
other hand, the middle trough (the head) is lower than the other
two troughs (the shoulders). The line connecting the troughs in a
head - and - shoulders top, or the peaks in a head- and - shoulders bot-
tom, is called the neckline. Breaks of this neckline are considered
trading signals.
Following are some of the most common continuation patterns
found on currency charts. Exhibit 3.16 displays the ubiquitous fl ag
and pennant patterns.
84
cc0033..iinndddd 8844 11//1133//0099 99::5599::1133 AAMM

Currency Charts Take Shape
EXHIBIT 3.16
Flags and Pennants
Flags
Pennants
A fl ag is usually a smaller, shorter - term continuation pattern
that is characterized by a sharp move followed by a rectangle con-
solidation, and then by a continuation of the move prior to the fl ag.
Trades are signaled at the breakout/breakdown of the fl ag rectangle.
Flags are very common on foreign exchange charts.
A pennant is very similar to a fl ag in that it is also generally a
smaller, shorter - term continuation pattern. But after the initial sharp
move, the pennant forms a small triangle consolidation. This should
then be followed by a continuation of the move prior to the pennant.
Trades are signaled at the breakout/breakdown of the pennant trian-
gle. Like fl ags, pennants are also very common on currency charts.
Also generally considered continuation patterns, the primary tri-
angle variations are displayed in Exhibit 3.17 .
Triangles are larger price consolidation patterns that are charac-
terized by progressively decreasing volatility as the pattern develops.
85
cc0033..iinndddd 8855 11//1133//0099 99::5599::1133 AAMM

Technical Analysis
EXHIBIT 3.17
Three Types of Triangles
Symmetrical
Triangle
Ascending Descending
Triangle Triangle
These common formations are most often considered continua-
tion patterns. Symmetrical triangles are characterized by converging
sides, where neither of these sides is fl at, or horizontal. Trades are
initiated at the triangle break.
Ascending triangles are also common continuation patterns, but
they are most often considered bullish. As such, they usually form
during uptrends as bullish continuation formations. An ascending tri-
angle is characterized by a rising bottom line with a horizontal top
line. A breakout above the top resistance line in an ascending triangle
is considered a potential signal to buy.
Descending triangles are continuation patterns that are most
often considered bearish. As such, they usually form during down-
trends as bearish continuation formations. A descending triangle is
characterized by a falling top line with a horizontal bottom line.
A breakdown below the bottom support line in a descending trian-
gle is considered a potential signal to sell short.
86
cc0033..iinndddd 8866 11//1133//0099 99::5599::1133 AAMM

Currency Charts Take Shape
EXHIBIT 3.18
Wedges and Rectangles
Falling Wedge Rising Wedge
Rectangle
Somewhat like symmetrical triangles, wedges are characterized
by two converging lines, as shown in Exhibit 3.18 . Unlike symmet-
rical triangles, however, the two sides of a wedge will both slope
in the same direction. Therefore, a rising wedge will have two sides
that both slope up, while a falling wedge will have two sides that
both slope down. Falling wedges after uptrends are considered bull-
ish continuation patterns, while rising wedges after downtrends are
considered bearish continuation patterns. Trading signals are trig-
gered on the breakout or breakdown of the wedge.
Similar to a parallel trend channel, but fl at, a rectangle is a hori-
zontal trading range bounded by two horizontal lines, as shown in
Exhibit 3 .18 . Rectangles frequently serve as pauses in a trend, and
therefore are often considered continuation patterns. At least two
touches on both the top and bottom of a rectangle are necessary for
the formation. Trades are signaled on the breakout or breakdown of
87
cc0033..iinndddd 8877 11//1133//0099 99::5599::1144 AAMM

Technical Analysis
the rectangle. Incidentally, if a rectangle is of suffi cient height it can
also be traded as a range, long at support and short at resistance.
The chart patterns just described are certainly far from an
exhaustive study of technical trading patterns. However, they repre-
sent the most important and most common patterns found on for-
eign exchange charts. Therefore, they comprise a solid introduction
to the world of chart pattern analysis. More information on strate-
gies involving these patterns will be discussed in Chapter 5 .
I
ndicators of Change
No discussion of technical analysis tools would be complete without
mentioning some of the many mathematically d erived indicators that
seem to have proliferated through the years. New indicators appear
all the time, promising to be the next miracle add- o n to our price
charts. Up to now, though, there have been very few, if any, miracles.
The main issue with many of these indicators is that, for the
most part, they are lagging refl ections of price. In other words, indi-
cators are great at describing what price has done in the past, but
since they mostly just follow price action, many indicators are hard -
pressed to provide any reliable clue as to what might happen next.
This was discussed earlier in this chapter in the section on moving
averages, which are also considered lagging indicators. For this rea-
son, many indicators are relegated to serving as secondary confi r-
mation tools. Of course, it is true that no technical tool could ever
really tell the future. But many of the indicators that novice trad-
ers love to clutter up their charts with are not much more than a
re p ackaged version of price itself.
88
cc0033..iinndddd 8888 11//1133//0099 99::5599::1144 AAMM

Indicators of Change
That being said, there are some very useful indicators available
that can be extremely valuable in augmenting price action analysis.
Some of these are described briefl y below.
Average True Range (ATR) is an exceptionally useful indi-
cator that usually resides either vertically above or below the bar/
candle price chart. ATR is an average measure of recent volatility.
It is calculated as a moving average of a given past period of price
ranges. When the ATR has a high reading, recent volatility has been
high. When a low reading is given, recent volatility has been low.
ATR is used by technical currency traders to determine the recent
level of trading activity and volatility for a given currency pair. ATR
can also be used for setting logical stop losses and price targets based
on volatility, among other uses.
The Average Directional Index (ADX) also resides either ver-
tically above or below the bar/candle price chart. ADX measures
the strength of the current trend, not the direction of the trend.
Strong trends, whether up or down, have high ADX readings, while
non trending, ranging markets have low ADX readings. ADX is an
important indicator that can help a foreign exchange trader deter-
mine whether to use trend - trading techniques or range- trading
techniques.
Bollinger Bands are overlaid directly on the price bars/candles.
They consist of a simple moving average (SMA) with two additional
lines, one that is a certain number of standard deviations above the
SMA and the other that is the same number of standard deviations
below the SMA. By default, Bollinger Bands are usually set at a
20 - period SMA with 2 standard deviations above and below the
moving average. But these settings can be readily changed to suit
89
cc0033..iinndddd 8899 11//1133//0099 99::5599::1144 AAMM

Technical Analysis
EXHIBIT 3.19
Bollinger Bands
Source: FX Solutions – FX AccuCharts
the trading environment. The primary purpose of the Bollinger
Bands indicator is to measure a currency pair’ s volatility around the
mean. The Bands are often used to give indications of impending
volatility increases (when the bands tighten). They can also be used
to provide indications of overbought or oversold market conditions.
See Exhibit 3.19 .
The Parabolic Stop - And - Reverse (SAR) is an indicator that
excels at providing a sensible trailing stop and reverse methodology.
Trailing stops are useful elements of an overall stop loss strategy, and
will be discussed further in the section of Chapter 6 that covers risk
management. The Parabolic SAR dots follow price such that if a
90
cc0033..iinndddd 9900 11//1133//0099 99::5599::1144 AAMM

Indicators of Change
TIPS AND TECHNIQUES
The Bollinger Squeeze
There are almost as many different ways to interpret Bollinger
Bands as there are traders using them to make trading deci-
sions. But according to John Bollinger, CFA, CMT, famed origina-
tor of the Bands that bear his name, “ The Squeeze ” is perhaps
the most popular topic related to this powerful indicator. Bollinger
is the founder and president of Bollinger Capital Management
and BollingerBands.com, and his work has long been renowned
among professional traders and investors alike.
His book, Bollinger on Bollinger Bands, describes The Squeeze
in considerable detail. He writes, “ Bollinger Bands are driven by
volatility, and The Squeeze is a pure refl ection of that volatility.
When volatility falls to historically low levels, The Squeeze is on.”
He proceeds to write, “ Time and again, we see The Squeeze
in action. A consolidation begins. The resulting trading range nar-
rows dramatically. The Bollinger Bands begin to tighten around
the price structure. The stage is set. ”
The well- documented theory behind The Squeeze is that
periods of high volatility generally follow periods of low volatility.
When the Bollinger Bands narrow dramatically, volatility is drasti-
cally decreased. The subsequent expectation, then, is for price
to breakout violently in either direction. This can potentially be a
very tradable event.
But Bollinger goes on to caution, “ Traders beware! There is a
trick to The Squeeze, an odd turning of the wheel that you need
to be aware of, the head fake. Often as the end of a Squeeze
nears, price will stage a short fake- out move, and then abruptly
turn and surge in the direction of the emerging trend. ”
If proper caution is exercised to control the risk inherent in
the common “ fake - out ” moves, The Squeeze can be an effective
tool in any forex trader ’s repertoire.
91
cc0033..iinndddd 9911 11//1133//0099 99::5599::1155 AAMM

Technical Analysis
dot is below the price bar, the trade should be long with a dynamic
stop l oss at the dot. Conversely, if the dot is above the price bar,
the trade should be short with a dynamic stop l oss at the dot. Like
many other indicators, the Parabolic SAR can be prone to vicious
whipsaws where the trading signals result in a string of losses due
to a lack of trend. But the fact that this indicator stresses a logical
use of the trailing stop - loss concept makes it a valuable tool for the
technical trader.
Besides the indicators described above, there is another spe-
cial class of indicators, called oscillators, that fulfi lls an important
role. Many of the oscillators, like Momentum and RSI, are very
similar in formula and function. So they will not all be discussed
here. Instead, only the most important and unique oscillators that
are most applicable to foreign exchange trading will be covered.
Oscillators excel at providing indications of overbought or oversold
status during ranging markets. When an oscillator reading is above
a certain overbought threshold during a trading range, it hints that
upward momentum may soon be exhausted, and that an impending
downward turn may occur. Conversely, when an oscillator reading
is below a certain oversold threshold during a trading range, it hints
that downward momentum may soon be exhausted, and that an
impending upward turn may occur.
As will be seen in Chapter 5 , oscillators also excel at providing
divergence signals, among other functions. Divergence can provide
important clues as to the possible direction of future momentum.
The Moving Average Convergence Divergence (MACD) is
among the most popular indicators/oscillators ever invented. Many
traders use MACD as their sole confi rming oscillator. Some traders
92
cc0033..iinndddd 9922 11//1133//0099 99::5599::1155 AAMM

Indicators of Change
EXHIBIT 3.20
MACD
Source: FX Solutions -– FX AccuCharts
also take trading signals exclusively from MACD. This multifaceted
indicator acts as a sign of trend momentum by representing the rela-
tionship between two moving averages. MACD can be traded by tak-
ing signals from crossovers of the two lines, crosses above and below
the zero line, and price- o scillator divergence, among other uses. See
Exhibit 3 .20.
Relative Strength Index (RSI) is another popular oscillator that
provides a measure of price momentum. RSI is a classic oscillator
that excels at giving overbought and oversold signals in ranging
markets. Its usefulness, like most other oscillators, tends to dimin-
ish considerably during trending markets. RSI may also be used for
93
cc0033..iinndddd 9933 11//1133//0099 99::5599::1155 AAMM

Technical Analysis
divergence purposes. One of its primary usages is as a trade confi r-
mation tool that identifi es overbought/oversold markets. The math-
ematical formula for RSI compares the magnitude of a currency
pair ’s recent gains to the magnitude of its recent losses.
The Stochastics oscillators come in several different fl avors — fast,
slow, and full. Whichever variety is chosen, the purpose is similar to
other oscillators— identify overbought/oversold and provide diver-
gence signals. The mathematical formula for Stochastics compares
the currency pair’ s closing price to its price range over a set period
of time. Because Stochastics has two lines as opposed to RSI ’s one
line, Stochastics can give off an additional signal that results when
the %K line crosses the %D line. Slow Stochastics is a smoothed ver-
sion of Fast Stochastics.
Rate of Change (ROC) is a very simple and classic oscillator
that provides a basic momentum measure. The mathematical calcu-
lation for this oscillator measures the percent change from the price
a given number of periods ago to the current price. Besides showing
divergence and overbought/oversold, ROC can also provide signals
when the oscillator goes above and below the zero line.
The Commodity Channel Index (CCI) is an important but
misnamed oscillator. Just as comfortable in the equities and for-
eign exchange worlds as it is in the futures/commodities arena,
CCI has proven itself to be a popular oscillator for currency trad-
ing. Originally intended to identify cycles in the commodities mar-
kets, CCI has grown to become a highly valued tool in foreign
exchange trading. Although CCI adherents have invented many dif-
ferent methods of analyzing this oscillator, its popular usage remains
similar to the other oscillators— to identify divergences, as well as
94
cc0033..iinndddd 9944 11//1133//0099 99::5599::1166 AAMM

Pointing the Way with Pivot Points
to point out overbought/oversold areas in the attempts to forecast
price reversals at extremes.
The indicators and oscillators described in this section make
up just a fraction of the technical studies available on most charting
platforms. Some of these platforms offer hundreds of different stud-
ies. But the ones just mentioned comprise some of the most essen-
tial and useful indicators/oscillators available, and therefore merit the
most extensive consideration.
P
ointing the Way with Pivot Points
The pivot point method of trading has made its way to the foreign
exchange markets from its use in futures and equities trading. Pivot
points are support and resistance levels derived mathematically from
the previous day’ s key data points. To calculate the main pivot point,
for example, a trader would take the average of the previous day ’s
high, low, and close. Then, four additional pivot points (named S1,
S2, R1, and R2, where S=Support and R=Resistance) are calculated
based on the central pivot point. Traders often add even more pivot
points beyond the basic four plus the central pivot, but these are con-
sidered the most common and essential levels. See Exhibit 3.21.
The idea behind pivot points is that they can act as key sup-
port and resistance levels, where price may turn as in a retracement
or correction. Many analysts believe that like some other techni-
cal tools, pivot points are a self - fulfi lling prophecy. In other words,
they work only because enough traders believe in them and trade
off of them that there is bound to be some signifi cant price activ-
ity at those levels. This self- fulfi lling prophecy concept can also be
95
cc0033..iinndddd 9955 11//1133//0099 99::5599::1166 AAMM

Technical Analysis
EXHIBIT 3.21
Pivot Points
Source: FX Solutions – FX AccuCharts
extended to trendlines, horizontal support/resistance lines, Fibonacci
retracements, and other technical tools. The basics of trading with
pivot points will be touched upon in Chapter 5.
F
ibonacci ’s Magic Numbers
There is a long and interesting story behind Fibonacci numbers
that is beyond the scope of this book. It should suffi ce to say that
Leonardo Fibonacci was a 13t h century Italian mathematician who
calculated a sequence of numbers that ultimately led to the discov-
ery of the golden ratio— 1.618. This ratio, and its inverse of 0.618,
96
cc0033..iinndddd 9966 11//1133//0099 99::5599::1166 AAMM

Fibonacci's Magic Numbers
EXHIBIT 3.22
Fibonacci Retracements
Source: FX Solutions – FX AccuCharts
are purported to occur throughout science, nature, and art. Even a
snail ’s shell is said to follow the laws of the golden ratio.
Because of the seemingly universal signifi cance of this ratio,
traders long ago began applying it to trading the fi nancial markets.
Today, technical analysts have many tools that are derived from the
Golden Ratio and Fibonacci ’s work. The most important and popu-
lar of these is the Fibonacci Retracement tool. See Exhibit 3.22 .
Drawn on a chart from a low price extreme to a high one, or vice
versa, Fibonacci retracements help outline key support and resistance
levels on retracements from the primary price move. For example, it
should be expected that within an uptrend, price will retrace at some
97
cc0033..iinndddd 9977 11//1133//0099 99::5599::1166 AAMM

Technical Analysis
point. When it does, Fibonacci theory suggests that price will likely
retrace a magnitude of 38.2%, 50%, or 61.8% of the original move.
These are the most signifi cant levels according to Fibonacci trading
theory. Other important retracement levels include 23.6%, 76.4%, and
100%. Knowing where all of these levels occur on a given price chart
can be instrumental in fi nding out where traders may be paying par-
ticular attention. As such, Fibonacci levels can be considered, to some
extent, a self - fulfi lling prophecy much like the pivot points.
The various Fibonacci tools, especially retracements, are extremely
popular with foreign exchange traders. More information on how
traders use Fibonacci principles to trade currencies will be touched
upon in Chapter 5 .
R
iding the Elliott Wave
Related to Fibonacci methodology, Elliott Wave Theory is named
after Ralph Nelson Elliott, who asserted that price movement is
predictable and can be classifi ed into a series of identifi able waves.
The basic wave structure is a series of fi ve waves comprising the
primary trend movement with three waves comprising the correc-
tive movement. Several rules and guidelines accompany this basic
structure that makes Elliott Wave Theory a complete philosophy of
trading. See Exhibit 3.23 .
This trading philosophy is immensely popular with countless glo-
bal adherents. Included among these adherents are some of the most
competent traders and analysts in the world. Although some detrac-
tors may deem Elliott Wave analysis as too subjective to be consist-
ently effective, the fact that scores of successful traders have long
98
cc0033..iinndddd 9988 11//1133//0099 99::5599::1177 AAMM

Getting to the Point & Figure
EXHIBIT 3.23
Elliott Wave
Elliott Wave Theory
A
5
B
C
4
3
2
1
abided by the tenets of this theory makes this a trading methodology
that should not be ignored by foreign exchange traders. The Elliott
Wave trading methodology will be described further in Chapter 5 .
G
etting to the Point & Figure
Point & fi gure (p & f ) charting is an older, but still popular, form of
technical analysis that constitutes an entire trading methodology
unto itself. Some may characterize p& f charting as trading based
upon pure price action. This is because only price, which is undeni-
ably the most important aspect of technical analysis, is customarily
included on this type of chart (in the form of X s and O s). Other
data that can readily be found on bar and candlestick charts, like
time and period opens/closes, are generally excluded on p& f charts.
This leaves only the uncluttered purity of price action. See Exhibit
3.24 for a typical forex point & fi gure chart.
The primary advantage of using p& f charting methodology over
other types of charts (like bars and candlesticks) lies in the clearer
99
cc0033..iinndddd 9999 11//1133//0099 99::5599::1177 AAMM

Technical Analysis
EXHIBIT 3.24
Point & Figure Chart
Source: FX Solutions – FX AccuCharts
and more simplifi ed representation of trend, support/resistance, and
breakouts. Generally, much of the up - and - down price “ noise ” that is
so common in the foreign exchange markets is fi ltered out by p & f
charts, leaving just the clarity of trend movement and direction. As
will be described in Chapter 5 , point & fi gure charting consists pri-
marily of watching for price level breakouts.
C
hapter Summary
Most foreign exchange traders use at least some form of technical anal-
ysis in their currency trading. The many tools of technical analysis begin
with the basic chart, of which there are a couple of primary types.
100
cc0033..iinndddd 110000 11//1133//0099 99::5599::1177 AAMM

Chapter Summary
Bar charts and candlestick charts are, by far, the most prevalent types
of charts. From there, we move onto charting timeframes, of which
there are many. Extremely short - term traders may use minute charts
(where each bar/candlestick is worth a minute of price action), while
longer - term traders may use hourly, daily, or weekly charts, among a
myriad of other timeframes.
The real essentials of technical analysis lie partly in the twin
phenomena of support and resistance, where price seems to be
attracted to and repelled by these oft - visited levels. These levels are
usually denoted with horizontal lines across the chart. Going a step
further, trend lines and trend channels are sloped lines that point out
dynamic support and resistance with respect to a directional trend.
Moving averages also excel at outlining the general trend, as well as
showing dynamic support and resistance levels.
Patterns are very common on currency charts. There are several
different types of patterns that are prevalent. Japanese candlestick
patterns that consist of single or multiple candles are, by defi nition,
found only on candlestick charts. These include dojis, hammers,
engulfi ng patterns, and so on. Larger, Western - style patterns like
triangles, head - and - shoulders, fl ags, and pennants can be found on
both bar and candlestick charts. All of these patterns paint a reveal-
ing picture to the experienced technical analyst.
Chart indicators also reveal information to technical traders. This
information is primarily in the form of momentum readings and
overbought/oversold levels. Mostly used to confi rm trading signals
from other technical analysis tools, indicators and oscillators are usu-
ally either overlaid right on top of the price bars/candlesticks, or
separated in an area vertically above or below price.
101
cc0033..iinndddd 110011 11//1133//0099 99::5599::1177 AAMM

Technical Analysis
Some other specialized technical analysis methods have also
gained many adherents in the trading world. Often, comprehen-
sive trading strategies have evolved around these techniques. These
include pivot points, Fibonacci, and Elliott Wave, among others.
Entire books can and have been written about each of these top-
ics. It is in the best interests of every well - rounded foreign exchange
trader to have at least a passing familiarity with these useful analyti-
cal methods.
Finally, although point & fi gure charts will perhaps never be able
to surpass the widespread use of bar and candlestick charts, all seri-
ous technical analysts should be familiar with this granddaddy of
charting types. Analysis on point & fi gure charts is signifi cantly dif-
ferent from analysis performed on bar or candlestick charts. But the
unique insights provided by point & fi gure charts, especially with
respect to trend, support/resistance, and breakouts, can be extremely
valuable to technical traders in the foreign exchange markets.
102
cc0033..iinndddd 110022 11//1133//0099 99::5599::1188 AAMM

CHAPTER 4
Fundamental
Analysis — What
Drives the Foreign
Exchange Markets
After reading this chapter, you will be
able to:
● Recognize what really makes the foreign exchange
markets move, and how best to take advantage of this
knowledge .
● Appreciate how interest rates, infl ation, economic
growth, and other fundamental factors contribute to
currency valuation .
● Identify the economic indicators that are essential for suc-
cessful foreign exchange traders to know and understand .
● Apply the fundamental concepts of carry trading and
news trading to your own market strategies .
103
cc0044..iinndddd 110033 11//1133//0099 1100::0011::4400 AAMM

Fundamental Analysis
I
ntroduction to Fundamental Analysis — Basic
Economics
Like technical analysis, fundamental analysis is another major aspect of
fi nancial analysis used for trading the foreign exchange markets. Whereas
technical analysis is concerned primarily with interpreting price action,
fundamental analysis concentrates on such topics as economic data, gov-
ernment policy, socio p olitical conditions, global news, and the business
cycle. These topics include an array of different variables, most notable
of which include macroeconomic factors like interest rates, infl ation,
central bank policy, economic growth, housing, employment, industrial
and commercial production, and the list goes on and on.
Whereas technical analysis excels at providing logical trade entries
and exits, fundamental analysis can provide a framework for formu-
lating a longer- t erm opinion on the global currency markets. Because
of this, with the notable exception of news trading and carry trading
(which will both be discussed later in this chapter and in Chapter 5 ) ,
there is a lack of practical and concrete trading methodologies for
retail forex traders that utilize fundamental analysis exclusively. In
other words, an individual foreign exchange trader could certainly
try to place trades based solely on a fundamental understanding
of economic and political factors. But in doing so, the placement of
trade entries and exits could be considered essentially an arbitrary act
without the precise entry/exit methods of technical analysis.
That being said, however, fundamental analysis is an extremely
vital and indispensable aspect of successful foreign exchange trading.
Fundamental factors, or the market’ s perceptions of these factors, are
essentially what make the currency markets move.
104
cc0044..iinndddd 110044 11//1133//0099 1100::0011::4400 AAMM

A Healthy Interest in Global Bank Rates
Technicals without the fundamentals makes for just as incom-
plete a trader as fundamentals alone. These two aspects of foreign
exchange market analysis complement each other extremely well,
and are two of the key ingredients to approaching foreign exchange
trading in an intelligent, well- rounded manner. Even those technical
purists who refuse to heed fundamental information, insisting that
all of this information is already refl ected in the price charts, would
be well served to pay attention at least to how central bank policy,
economic data announcements, and major socio p olitical events may
affect price.
While all of these concepts are integral elements of the funda-
mental approach, the main crux of fundamental analysis clearly lies
in the framework of basic economics. Currencies appreciate and
depreciate in value because of simple economic supply and demand
factors. If there is a progressively higher demand for and/or lower
supply of a certain country’ s currency, its value should increase.
Conversely, if there is a progressively lower demand for and/or
higher supply of a currency, its value should decrease. It is the for-
eign exchange speculator ’s job to determine in which direction the
shifting of supply and demand is most likely to occur.
There are many factors that can contribute to this shifting of
supply/demand for the world ’s currencies. One of the most impor-
tant of these factors is interest rates, which will be discussed next.
A
Healthy Interest in Global Bank Rates
Global interest rates are one of the primary drivers of currency
exchange rates. Generally speaking, when all other variables are
105
cc0044..iinndddd 110055 11//1133//0099 1100::0011::4411 AAMM

Fundamental Analysis
kept equal, rising interest rates (central bank tightening) have a ten-
dency to contribute to an appreciation in a currency. This is because
higher - yielding currencies attract more demand from large institu-
tional investors, who are consistently in search of ways to earn more
on their money. If, on the other hand, there is a lowering of interest
rates (central bank easing), the tendency is towards a depreciation
of the currency. This is due to decreasing demand by the institu-
tional investors, who generally tend to move their money away
from lower - yielding assets. Although this may constitute a simplistic
assumption regarding international capital fl ows, as so many other
factors contribute to exchange rate movement, interest rates gener-
ally tend to exert their infl uence in this manner.
It should be kept in mind, from a foreign exchange trading per-
spective, that the appreciation or depreciation in an exchange rate
is less a product of the absolute value of the interest rate than the
direction of change in the interest rate. In other words, although
the current interest rate for a country ’s currency is important in
helping the market to determine its exchange value, the direction
of interest rate change is even more important. Just because a cur-
rency carries a high- yield does not ensure an appreciation in the
exchange rate. But if the currency’ s central bank continues to raise
interest rates and indicates an intention to keep doing so, this can
have a considerable impact on appreciation in the currency.
Changes in interest rates are initiated by central bank policy. In
the United States, this central bank is the Federal Reserve (informally
called the “ Fed ”) . Other major central banks include the European
Central Bank (ECB), the Bank of England (BOE), the Bank of
Japan (BOJ), the Bank of Canada (BOC), and the Reserve Bank
106
cc0044..iinndddd 110066 11//1133//0099 1100::0011::4411 AAMM

A Healthy Interest in Global Bank Rates
of Australia (RBA). These institutions make decisions that help deter-
mine the direction of interest rates.
In adjusting interest rates, central banks seek to achieve a deli-
cate balance between attaining a signifi cant level of economic growth
while staving off excessive infl ation. A certain controlled level of infl a-
tion is necessary for economic growth, as a country without infl ation
is a sign of a stagnant economy. At the same time, however, excessive
infl ation can be enormously disadvantageous to an economy and its
consumers. Therefore, each central bank must take both goals of eco-
nomic growth and infl ation control into serious consideration when
setting monetary policy.
In view of these goals, there are a couple of primary reasons
why a central bank would seek to change interest rates. These are
by no means the only reasons, but they are usually among the most
compelling ones for central banks. Generally speaking, central banks
will look to increase interest rates (tighten) in order to help stave off
excessive infl ation. Conversely, central banks will look to decrease
interest rates (ease) in order to help stimulate economic growth.
Either way, central banks have the power to impact the foreign
exchange markets enormously by making changes in interest rate
policy.
Often, an actual change in rate policy is not even needed to affect
a currency’ s value. Merely a comment hinting at potential policy
intention within a speech by the Fed chairman, for example, is often
suffi cient to trigger drastic price moves. This highlights the fact that it
is not as much the actual fundamentals that move currency exchange
rates. Rather, it is more the traders’ collective perceptions and expec-
tations of the fundamentals that truly drive these markets.
107
cc0044..iinndddd 110077 11//1133//0099 1100::0011::4411 AAMM

Fundamental Analysis
C
arried Away with Trading
Within the context of trading foreign exchange based on fun-
damental factors, one of the primary trading/investment models
utilized both by institutional and retail traders is the carry trade.
Further information on carry trading will be discussed in Chapter 5 ,
but the general concept will be described here.
The carry trade is primarily a longer- term fundamental invest-
ment strategy used by foreign exchange participants to exploit inter-
est rate differentials between currencies. Used in conjunction with
the high leverage ratios commonly offered in foreign exchange trad-
ing, this strategy can produce exceptionally magnifi ed returns while
also carrying a signifi cant degree of risk.
The basic idea behind carry trading is to buy a currency with
a high interest rate while simultaneously selling another currency
with a low interest rate. The net effect is that the trader earns a posi-
tive yield based on the differential between the two interest rates.
For example, suppose a foreign exchange trader buys AUD/
JPY, which is a frequently carry - traded pair due to the tradition-
ally wide interest rate differential between the Australian dollar
and the Japanese yen. Buying, or being long, the AUD/JPY is the
same as buying AUD while simultaneously selling JPY. Another
way to look at a long position in AUD/JPY is the concept of bor-
rowing the yen (low interest rate) in order to buy the aussie (high
interest rate). Either way it is viewed, the result is the same — the
trader earns the high rate while paying the low rate, or the trader
earns the differential between the rates (minus the inevitable interest
rate spread).
108
cc0044..iinndddd 110088 11//1133//0099 1100::0011::4411 AAMM

Carried Away with Trading
If trading with one of the major retail foreign exchange bro-
kers, the carry trader earns daily interest profi ts for all open posi-
tions whose interest rate differential is positive, as in the case of a
long position in AUD/JPY. Based on the size of the trader ’s open
position and the amount of leverage used, this positive yield is con-
verted into a monetary amount that is actually paid directly into the
trader ’s account each day when the foreign exchange broker “ rolls
over ” open positions.
As mentioned earlier, because of the highly leveraged nature
of foreign exchange trading, this amount can be substantial. But it
should be kept in mind that interest rates can also work against trad-
ers in an equally substantial manner if positions that carry a negative
differential are kept open. To use AUD/JPY once again as an exam-
ple, it could get very expensive from an interest rate perspective to
hold a short position open in this pair. Short AUD/JPY is the same
as being short aussie (high interest rate) while simultaneously being
long yen (low interest rate), or borrowing at the high interest rate to
buy at the low interest rate. The net result in terms of the rate differ-
ential is negative, which means the trader is required to pay a daily
interest amount for the open position based on the negative differ-
ential, the size of the trade, and the amount of leverage used.
It is therefore imperative that foreign exchange traders pay close
attention to interest rate differentials on all trades initiated, espe-
cially those that will likely remain as open positions for more than a
day. Whether positive or negative, interest rate differentials can have
an extremely signifi cant impact on the daily balance in a foreign
exchange trading account. More on how traders may take advantage
of the positive interest rate differentials so eagerly sought - after by
109
cc0044..iinndddd 110099 11//1133//0099 1100::0011::4411 AAMM

Fundamental Analysis
carry traders (while mitigating the inherent exchange rate risks) will
be discussed in Chapter 5 .
I
ndication of Things to Come — Economic
Indicators
Aside from interest rates and central bank policy, one of the most
vitally important fundamental factors to foreign exchange traders is
economic data. Even technical traders who eschew the use of funda-
mental analysis should at least know when data are being released (by
referring to any online economic data calendar), but should prefera-
bly go even a step further by understanding the ramifi cations of each
release. Economic data and news announcements help drive both
short- term and long- t erm movements in currency exchange rates, so
it behooves all foreign exchange traders to know at least what every
major data point means, if not the underlying nuances of each.
On the opposite extreme from the technical- trading purists, a
whole legion of short- term foreign exchange traders actually live
and die by fundamental data and news announcements. During
news time, many of these traders simply sit at their computers—
trigger fi nger on the buy/sell button and live news feed blasting —
waiting for economic data to be released publicly so a trade can be
entered. In order to profi t with a few pips, news traders who trade
foreign exchange in this manner must be quick to make a split-
second assessment of the news or data, and then place a correspond-
ing trade within milliseconds. The trade must then be closed for
either a profi t or a loss, often only seconds after the trade was entered.
This is not an easy method of trading, and it most certainly is not for
110
cc0044..iinndddd 111100 11//1133//0099 1100::0011::4411 AAMM

Indication of Things to Come—Economic Indicators
everyone. But many of those who can make it work claim to reap
consistent success with this method. Further details on news trading
will be discussed later in this chapter and in Chapter 5 .
When economic data are released, currency pairs relating
to the specifi c release often react in extreme ways. For news traders,
the best possible reaction is for price to initiate a one - way run with-
out looking back. Often, however, extreme nondirectional volatility
is the order of the day, where price just seems to jump up and down,
whipsawing every position in sight. This is every foreign exchange
trader ’s nightmare. In any event, the major, market - moving eco-
nomic data indicators need to be identifi ed and studied in order for
a trader to have any chance of trading currencies successfully during
and after data releases.
Following are the key economic indicators relevant to the U.S.
dollar. These indicators constitute the major economic data reports
released periodically to the public by government agencies and pri-
vate entities. Of course, there are many other indicators that come
out every day affecting the many non - U.S. currencies. But since the
vast majority of trading volume in the foreign exchange markets is
centered primarily on U.S. dollar - based currency pairs (more than
90%), the following is an excellent representative sampling of the
fundamental indicators that help drive the global currency markets.
Within this list, the relative importance and market - moving poten-
tial of each indicator may change from month- to - month and year-
to - year, so the indicators are listed in no particular order:
• Gross Domestic Product (GDP)— GDP is perhaps the most con-
sistently followed and studied economic indicator for foreign
111
cc0044..iinndddd 111111 11//1133//0099 1100::0011::4422 AAMM

Fundamental Analysis
exchange traders. This is because it is virtually an all- encompassing
measure of economic growth and output. Released quarterly
and quoted on an annualized basis, the GDP is the total market
value of all goods and services produced by the economy within
a given period of time. Real GDP, which is GDP adjusted for
infl ation, takes into account price level changes, and so is con-
sidered a more accurate refl ection of production than the origi-
nal GDP percentage. When the real GDP report is released on a
quarterly basis, foreign exchange markets often move in a substan-
tial manner. This is due to the fact that real GDP is perhaps the
best single assessment of an economy ’s health available to market
participants. Therefore, if there is one economic indicator that all
foreign exchange traders should be aware of, it is the real GDP
statistic.
• Employment situation — The Employment Situation Report is
put out monthly by the Bureau of Labor Statistics, and includes
two vitally important surveys that summarize the nation’ s labor
situation: the Household Survey, and the Establishment Survey.
Within these surveys are some fi gures that have been known
in the past several years to move the foreign exchange markets
signifi cantly. Most notable of these fi gures is the Non - Farm
Payrolls (NFP) data (within the Establishment Survey), which
has been one of the most anticipated and traded benchmark sta-
tistics by foreign exchange traders in recent years. At the height
of its popularity, legions of foreign exchange traders have been
known to sit eagerly at their trading stations on the fi rst Friday
of every month, waiting nervously for the NFP numbers to be
released. Like these NFP numbers, the unemployment rate data
112
cc0044..iinndddd 111122 11//1133//0099 1100::0011::4422 AAMM

Indication of Things to Come—Economic Indicators
(within the Household Survey) also constitutes a major, market -
moving statistic.
• Retail sales — Another very important economic indicator, the
monthly Retail sales report releases data for the previous month
on the value of merchandise sold to end consumers by a repre-
sentative sampling of retailers. Retail sales data includes the total
retail sales in dollars, with the percentage change from the prior
month. It also includes the total retail sales excluding automo-
bile sales ( “ ex - autos” ). This is because auto sales tend to skew
the total sales fi gure in a way that would render it somewhat
misleading. Retail sales data provides traders with a broad meas-
ure of sales activity, and therefore, an accurate refl ection of the
economy ’s health as a whole. It can also give strong indications
of potential infl ation, interest rate change, and possibly even
recession. Therefore, this economic indicator is one that foreign
exchange traders should pay special attention to.
• Consumer Price Index (CPI) — Because the monthly CPI is a
benchmark infl ation indicator, it is one of the most anticipated
releases by the foreign exchange trading community. The CPI
takes a basket of common, daily - use consumer products and
compares price levels from previous years. Two metrics com-
prise the CPI s tatistics — Core CPI (minus food and energy)
and chain- weighted CPI. Core CPI is more anticipated by
traders than chain- w eighted CPI. Because CPI is probably the
best set of statistics for indicating infl ation, it can be effective in
giving hints as to future potential interest rate changes by the
Fed. For this reason alone, CPI is extremely worth watching by
foreign exchange traders.
113
cc0044..iinndddd 111133 11//1133//0099 1100::0011::4422 AAMM

Fundamental Analysis
• Producer Price Index (PPI)— From a foreign exchange trad-
ing perspective, the primary role of the monthly PPI, which
is released before the CPI every month, is essentially as a pre-
dictor of the all - important CPI infl ation - indicator. Whereas
the CPI is an index of consumer prices, the PPI is an index of
producer, or wholesale, prices. Since consumer prices and pro-
ducer prices are closely interrelated, the PPI and CPI are gen-
erally close refl ections of each other. Within the PPI, core PPI
(minus food and energy) is the most followed statistic. Because
infl ation and interest rates are so important to the value of the
U.S. dollar — and the CPI is perhaps the most accurate indica-
tor of infl ation available — the PPI is also an important eco-
nomic indicator because it is, in turn, an accurate predictor of
the CPI.
• Durable goods — The Durable Goods Report is a monthly
report that provides data on new orders placed with domestic
manufacturers for delivery of durable goods. These are defi ned
as factory hard goods with a useful life of at least three years,
and generally include higher - priced products such as automo-
biles, appliances, industrial machinery, computers, and the like.
The Durable Goods Report is one of the economic indicators
that paint a picture of the U.S. manufacturing sector, which is
a vital aspect of the economy. Therefore, the report also refl ects
general business demand and confi dence within the entire
economy. For these reasons, this indicator can certainly move
the currency markets, especially if the numbers deviate signifi -
cantly from the expected consensus numbers (more on consen-
sus will be discussed later in this chapter).
114
cc0044..iinndddd 111144 11//1133//0099 1100::0011::4422 AAMM

Indication of Things to Come—Economic Indicators
• Industrial production — The Industrial Production Report is
a monthly measure of the percentage change in manufactur-
ing and factory production. Like the Durable Goods Report,
the Industrial Production Report is important because it pro-
vides information on the vital manufacturing sector. Signifi cant
changes in this sector can signal changes in the entire economy,
including economic growth, infl ation, and recession. Therefore,
this economic indicator contains useful data for the foreign
exchange trader.
• Purchasing Managers Index (PMI)— The Institute for Supply
Management (ISM), a non p rofi t group, maintains the PMI and
issues monthly releases based upon this index. The PMI is a
composite index of the manufacturing situation that includes:
new orders, production level, employment, supplier delivery
times, and inventories. Data for this index, which is essentially
a sentiment indicator for the national manufacturing sector,
are obtained through surveys of purchasing managers. Like the
Durable Goods Report and the Industrial Production Report,
PMI releases are important to the foreign exchange mar-
ket because they provide a good measure of the manufactur-
ing sector, which is an integral component of U.S. economic
health.
• Employment Cost Index (ECI) — The ECI is a quarterly report
released by the Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS). This report meas-
ures changes in payroll compensation costs for nonfarm indus-
tries, as well as state and local governments (but excludes federal
government). Like the CPI, the ECI is used mainly for its role as
an infl ation indicator. Because of this, and the fact that the Fed
115
cc0044..iinndddd 111155 11//1133//0099 1100::0011::4422 AAMM

Fundamental Analysis
uses it to help decide monetary policy, the ECI is a useful eco-
nomic indicator for foreign exchange traders to watch.
• Housing starts/existing home sales— Together, Housing Starts
(New Residential Construction Report) and the Existing
Home Sales Report provide a solid picture of the U.S. hous-
ing situation. Housing starts is issued monthly by the U.S.
Census Bureau. Through surveys of homebuilders, it collects
data primarily with regard to the percentage change in housing
starts (new homes on which construction of the foundation
has begun) and building permits. Housing starts is often used
as an indicator of where the economy falls within the cur-
rent business cycle. The Existing Home Sales Report, on the
other hand, is a monthly release by the National Association
of Realtors that measures the number of existing homes that
were closed on (sold) in the previous month, along with aver-
age sales prices. Like Housing Starts, the Existing Home Sales
Report also provides business cycle indications. When taken as
a whole, these two reports accurately refl ect the state of the
U.S. housing market. This, in turn, can provide strong guidance
for the U.S. dollar during times when the housing situation is
negatively affecting the entire economy.
• Trade balance — The monthly Trade Balance Report is impor-
tant to foreign exchange traders because it has become an
indicator of U.S. economic health, as well as U.S. economic
standing in relation to foreign economies. The nominal trade
defi cit data, which represents the difference in monetary value
between exports and imports, is probably the most watched
and anticipated aspect of the Trade Balance Report. Data from
116
cc0044..iinndddd 111166 11//1133//0099 1100::0011::4422 AAMM

Indication of Things to Come—Economic Indicators
this report can have an impact on the foreign exchange mar-
kets in several ways. One of these ways has to do with chang-
ing supply and demand for a currency (in this case, the U.S.
dollar). If there is a decreasing U.S. trade defi cit, countries
importing more U.S. products must convert their funds to U.S.
dollars, thereby increasing the general demand for dollars and
making the dollar appreciate. If, on the other hand, there is an
increasing U.S. trade defi cit, with the U.S. buying more foreign
goods, this will necessitate the selling of dollars and buying of
more foreign currencies to pay for those foreign goods. This
generally results in a greater supply of dollars, and therefore
potential dollar depreciation. The Trade Balance Report can
certainly move the foreign exchange markets when released,
but especially if the numbers show a large change from the
previous period, or if they deviate considerably from consensus
estimates.
• Personal income and outlays — The Personal Income and Out-
lays Report is a monthly release by the Bureau of Economic
Analysis (BEA). Personal income is the amount of income
received by individuals from all sources, especially wages and
salaries. Personal outlays consist primarily of consumer pur-
chases of goods and services. Components of this report include
Real Personal Income (income per capita adjusted for infl ation),
Disposable Personal Income (income less tax payments), Personal
Savings Rate (Disposable Personal Income less personal out-
lays), and Personal Consumption Expenditures (PCE). This last
component, the PCE Index, provides a measure of how much
individuals are spending, including on consumer goods and
117
cc0044..iinndddd 111177 11//1133//0099 1100::0011::4433 AAMM

Fundamental Analysis
even credit card interest. Personal income data are important to
foreign exchange traders because it is a strong indicator of future
demand, and it acts as a barometer for the consumer sector. In
terms of personal outlays, or consumption, the PCE Index has
become one of the key indicators of infl ation, as well as a major
component of GDP. For these reasons, foreign exchange trad-
ers would be remiss to ignore the information contained in the
Personal Income and Outlays Report.
• Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) rate decisions —
As is evident from earlier in this chapter, interest rates are a
major determinant of currency value. An FOMC rate deci-
sion is not as much of an economic data indicator as the oth-
ers described in this section. Rather, it is a market - moving
announcement resulting from an all - important meeting on
interest rates, infl ation, and the economy by the top Fed board
members and bank presidents in the country. The FOMC,
which currently has eight regularly scheduled meetings per
year, is a major element of the Federal Reserve System, and
it serves as the primary director of U.S. monetary policy. The
central component of this policy is the setting of target lev-
els for the Fed Funds rate, which is the interest rate that banks
charge each other on overnight loans. Needless to say, because
of the FOMC’ s infl uence on interest rates, its decisions can
have an enormous impact on the foreign exchange markets.
Especially when there is a large change or unexpected depar-
ture from consensus, FOMC rate decisions can immediately
move the currency markets in an extreme manner.
118
cc0044..iinndddd 111188 11//1133//0099 1100::0011::4433 AAMM

Indication of Things to Come—Economic Indicators
EXECUTIVE INSIGHT
Joseph Trevisani
With all of the media news and noise that may affect the foreign
exchange markets, it can be extremely tricky to decipher which
pieces of information actually drive currency prices in a major
way. An expert in fundamental analysis, Joseph Trevisani — Chief
Market Analyst at FX Solutions (F XSolutions.com ) — serves as an
invaluable guide for separating the truly important information
from the not - so - important. With around two decades of experience
as an institutional currency trader and trading desk manager at
large global banks, Trevisani appears regularly on fi nancial news
channels and is quoted frequently by the major fi nancial press.
In an interview with the author, Trevisani states:
“ Central bank interest rates have a higher positive cor-
relation with the value of a country’ s currency than any
other factor. The country with the higher rate will gener-
ally have the more valuable currency. If British rates are
higher than American rates they will support the value
of the pound against the dollar, and vice versa. Banks in
countries with a rate advantage both pay more on depos-
its and attract more funds to earn the higher rate. But
for the currency markets the composition of the central
bank rate cycle is just as important as the comparison
between current rates. Central banks rarely make one
rate adjustment. Rates tend to move in cycles, a series
of rate cuts or increases over time, as the central bank
responds to changing economic conditions and attempts
to anticipate future conditions. It is the change in these
cycles, or the advent of a new cycle, that drives cur-
rency markets. When a central bank recalibrates its eco-
nomic view, the currency markets tend to build - in a large
119
cc0044..iinndddd 111199 11//1133//0099 1100::0011::4433 AAMM

Fundamental Analysis
EXECUTIVE INSIGHT (CONTINUED)
portion of the prospective rate cycle almost immediately.
Trading rates will adjust quickly to the new view. Central
banks play different roles within their respective econo-
mies, determined both by conception and tradition. The
European Central Bank has a specifi c mandate to pro-
tect against infl ation—economic growth is secondary.
The American Federal Reserve’ s role is to promote eco-
nomic growth and jobs, as well as to watch against infl a-
tion. Almost all central banks have responsibility for the
functioning of the national fi nancial system, though
the degree varies. A central bank’ s rate policy is primarily
determined by domestic economic circumstance and not
by a desire or a need to affect the value of its currency
on the international stage.
The value of a nation ’s currency is also directly
affected by the comparative strength and weakness of
a country’ s economy in relation to those of its trading
partners. The stronger economy, that with the higher GDP
growth, lower infl ation, greater productivity, political sta-
bility and a host of other factors will, over time, have the
stronger currency. It is these fundamental factors, in con-
junction with central bank interest rate cycles, which pro-
duce the long- lasting price trends typical of the currency
markets. Some factors that affect a country’ s economic
status refl ect the choices of the political system. The bal-
ance between social welfare and individual competition
is one example— the openness of an economy to foreign
trade and capital is another. Other economic factors such
as labor mobility, entrepreneurship, and savings rates
are part of the social and cultural makeup of the nation.
And yet others, like oil or mineral deposits, stem from a
nation ’s geographic or resource endowment. All of these
120
cc0044..iinndddd 112200 11//1133//0099 1100::0011::4433 AAMM

No News Is Bad News for News Traders
EXECUTIVE INSIGHT (CONTINUED)
factors, and many more, are monitored, assessed and
judged for their effect on economic growth and develop-
ment. A change in one factor or several can affect the
productivity capacity of an economy, alter its competitive-
ness against its trading partners, and change the relative
value of its currency.
Exchange rates tend to focus on one aspect of a
currency—its use as a medium of exchange. The U.S.
economy is currently 22% of world GDP; it was once 50%.
Modern industrial capitalism is spreading to new and ever-
larger sections of the world. Since World War II the U.S.
percentage of the world economy has steadily diminished
as other national economies have grown at faster rates.
Over time that reduction has decreased the demand for
the dollar as an agent of exchange. But currencies also
act as a long term store of value. Any foreign investor in
a country is also an investor in that country’ s currency.
When a central bank or private entity buys United States
Treasury Bonds or American stocks, it does so with dol-
lars, creating demand for the U.S. currency. Until the cre-
ation of the euro there was no alternative to the dollar
as a store of value. No other country could match the
economic, technological and political power of the United
States, and these qualities made it a favorite investment
destination. The demand for the dollar as a store of value
created by investment fl ow added greatly to its demand
in the currency markets. ”
N
o News Is Bad News for News Traders
With economic news and data coming out of the United States and
other countries on an ongoing basis, foreign exchange traders who
121
cc0044..iinndddd 112211 11//1133//0099 1100::0011::4433 AAMM

Fundamental Analysis
truly strive to be successful, regardless of whether they are primarily
technical or fundamental strategists, must necessarily be vigilant of
scheduled economic releases and current events. Fundamental forces
affect currency prices too thoroughly to ignore. But when traders
concentrate all of their attention on news and economic data to the
exclusion of other factors, this is called news trading.
As mentioned earlier in this chapter, news trading can be diffi -
cult for a number of reasons. One notable diffi culty is the speed that
is required to place trades at the right time in order to take advan-
tage of the best price moves on a data release. These moves can take
place during or only milliseconds after the release, and traders need
to compete with countless other individuals and institutions that are
placing trades at the same time.
In addition, obtaining the news earlier than others is virtually
impossible for the average individual trader. Most traders do not
have access to the almost instantaneous news feeds that are neces-
sary for trading the news effectively. Any lag time in receiving data
releases translates into potentially lost profi ts.
Furthermore, during and immediately after news releases are
among the most volatile times for the currency markets. This means
that it may be harder for trades to be fi lled by the broker as accu-
rately as during quieter markets. This is due to the sheer speed of
price movement as well as the price gaps that can occur in fast
markets.
Besides the speed factor, another underlying diffi culty with news
trading involves the proper interpretation of the news. Economic
data releases and other news announcements hold many nuances
that can be diffi cult for the average foreign exchange trader to
122
cc0044..iinndddd 112222 11//1133//0099 1100::0011::4444 AAMM

No News Is Bad News for News Traders
comprehend fully. Often, a new economic number comes out
that should obviously make the dollar go up, but instead, the dol-
lar plummets, or vice versa. This is where the concept of consensus
comes in.
When a piece of news or data release comes out and the market
does something intuitively different or opposite of what it should
do, traders will say that the information was already “ priced in ”
to the market. For example, if bad news for the dollar comes out
but the dollar goes up anyway, it should mean that the market was
already expecting bad news. Maybe the news that ultimately came
out, though bad, was not as bad as traders had been expecting. When
a market expecting horrible news receives only bad news, the rela-
tively positive nature of the bad news will often make the market go
up. In this example, the expectation of horrible news is called the
consensus.
Foreign exchange traders who trade the news must pay atten-
tion not only to the actual numbers that are released, but also to
the consensus, or what the economists and other experts are expect-
ing. Then, trading can take place based on how far the actual num-
bers deviate from the consensus numbers. In this way, news trading
is based almost entirely on relative values rather than absolute values.
Often, news traders will determine their own trading threshold for
the difference between actual data and consensus data, placing long
or short trades only if the respective threshold is met or exceeded by
the actual data.
One fi nal point regarding economic indicators and trading the
news lies in the economic data issuer’ s common practice of releas-
ing revisions. For example, if Non - Farm Payrolls data are released
123
cc0044..iinndddd 112233 11//1133//0099 1100::0011::4444 AAMM

Fundamental Analysis
on the fi rst Friday in February describing employment fi gures for
the month of January, what will sometimes happen is that those
January numbers will be signifi cantly revised when the new Non -
Farm - Payrolls report comes out in March. If substantial enough,
this March revision has the potential to move the foreign exchange
markets even more than the original report released in February.
Therefore, the prudent news trader must necessarily pay close atten-
tion not only to consensus and actual data fi gures, but also to the
possibility of unexpected revisions.
As many fundamental news traders will attest, because of all the
diffi culties involved in trading the news, including those described
here, it is defi nitely a very challenging style of trading. Those who
take the time and trouble to overcome the obstacles, though, often
fi nd it a very rewarding one.
C
hapter Summary
Fundamental analysis is essentially the study of why markets move,
or, more specifi cally, what drives them to move. The primary driv-
ers in foreign exchange, like that of other fi nancial markets, are the
basic economic concepts of supply and demand. If there is high
demand for and/or low supply of a currency, its value should go up.
Conversely, if there is low demand for and/or high supply of a cur-
rency, its value should go down.
In turn, supply and demand are driven primarily by traders’ col-
lective perceptions of fundamental factors. These factors include
interest rates, central bank policy, economic growth, and infl ation,
124
cc0044..iinndddd 112244 11//1133//0099 1100::0011::4444 AAMM

Chapter Summary
among others. Changes in these factors can have profound effects
on the currency markets.
In terms of interest rates and central bank policy, which are
instrumental determinants of currency value, central banks will
tend to increase rates (tighten) with the goal of controlling infl ation.
On the other hand, these banks will seek to decrease rates (ease) in
order to help stimulate the economy. Generally speaking, the immedi-
ate effect of tightening tends toward an appreciation of the currency,
while the immediate effect of easing tends toward a depreciation of
the currency. These are only general tendencies— not rules— as many
different factors combine to dictate currency exchange rates.
Also in the realm of interest rates, carry traders can earn inter-
est income on the interest rate differential for the currency pair they
are trading, provided the trade is in the direction of positive interest.
For example, for a carry - traded pair like AUD/JPY (where AUD has
a high interest rate and JPY has a low interest rate) a trader would
earn a positive differential for holding a long AUD/JPY position,
and would be charged as a result of a negative differential for hold-
ing a short AUD/JPY position.
Also important to the value of a currency, and what many short -
term foreign exchange traders gravitate towards, are economic data
indicators. These indicators are usually released on a monthly or
quarterly basis by government agencies or private organizations, and
they each provide a barometer reading for a certain sector or aspect
of the economy. For example, GDP is used for assessing economic
growth, CPI for providing indications of infl ation, and the Non -
Farm Payrolls report for evaluating the employment situation.
125
cc0044..iinndddd 112255 11//1133//0099 1100::0011::4444 AAMM

Fundamental Analysis
News traders in the foreign exchange markets seek to exploit
these economic data releases by trading currencies based on how the
actual data fi gures may deviate from the pre determined consensus
fi gures. In this way, these traders are using the twin concepts of mar-
ket expectation and surprise to dictate their trading. There are many
diffi culties involved in this type of trading, but those who are able
to overcome the signifi cant obstacles often fi nd news trading to be a
worthwhile pursuit.
Regardless of whether one is classifi ed primarily as a techni-
cal analyst or a fundamental analyst, it is absolutely essential for any
foreign exchange trader who wishes to have a reasonable chance
at success to pay at least some attention to the fundamentals. The
more a trader learns about fundamental market drivers, the better
that trader will be prepared for the often unpredictable nature of the
foreign exchange markets.
126
cc0044..iinndddd 112266 11//1133//0099 1100::0011::4444 AAMM

CHAPTER 5
F oreign Exchange
Trading Methods
and Strategies
After reading this chapter, you will be
able to:
● Appreciate the many methods and strategies commonly
used by experienced foreign exchange traders .
● Comprehend the logic and reasoning behind the most
popular forex trading styles .
● Execute specifi c, high - probability strategies in a foreign
exchange trading account .
● Understand the basics of backtesting and autotrading .
127
cc0055..iinndddd 112277 11//1133//0099 1100::0044::5500 AAMM

Foreign Exchange Trading Methods and Strategies
R
ules to Trade By
Here is where all that has been learned thus far, especially with
regard to basic trading mechanics and technical/fundamental analy-
sis, can be combined to form cohesive trading methods and strate-
gies with defi nitive rules to trade by. Knowledge of market analysis
alone is simply not enough to trade foreign exchange effectively.
In order to be successful, each trader must necessarily integrate the
principles of market analysis into structured, workable trading proc-
esses that offer the best chances of consistent profi tability. This is
where trading methods and strategies come in.
When reading this chapter, keep in mind that the lines between
each trading method/strategy/system/style can often be exces-
sively blurred. For example, swing trading shares many similarities
with range trading. The same may be said for position trading and
long - term trend trading. Similarly, point & fi gure trading is some-
times considered breakout trading at its fi nest. The point is that each
of these ways of tackling the foreign exchange market will have its
own separate heading, but the overlap among them can be substan-
tial. This is due to the fact that there are almost as many ways to
trade currencies as there are traders in the fi nancial markets, and
each particular way of trading does not always fi t precisely into one
neat bucket. This chapter will provide an overview of some of the
main methods of trading forex that have proven themselves over
time, as well as some specifi cs regarding how to go about applying
those methods.
It should also be noted here that none of these methods can be
considered the “ h oly grail” of forex trading. In fact, there is no such
128
cc0055..iinndddd 112288 11//1133//0099 1100::0044::5522 AAMM

Rules to Trade By
thing as a holy grail in the trading world. No trading method or
strategy could ever offer any trader a guaranteed promise of success
and profi tability. The closest thing that comes to anything resembling
a holy grail would be a combination of several factors, including:
broad trading experience, extensive market knowledge, suffi cient risk
capital, prudent money management, a good trading plan, and a fi rst-
rate trading strategy with a positive expectancy. To a degree, this book
can help with the crucial aspects of knowledge, risk/money manage-
ment, a trading plan, and a trading strategy. But obviously, experience
and capital are entirely in the hands of each individual trader.
What the following trading methods and strategies will provide
is a head start into the world of real, hands- on currency trading.
Armed with the methods and strategies contained herein, as well as
a free practice trading account from any online forex broker, pro-
spective traders can immediately begin to explore the ways in which
experienced traders approach the foreign exchange markets. It is
highly recommended that traders practice any new method exten-
sively on a demo practice account before attempting to apply it on
a real money account. Again, successful trading is not just about a
great trading strategy. If a trader is to be successful, that individual
must necessarily synchronize many positive attributes in conjunc-
tion with a good method or strategy.
In no particular order, the foreign exchange trading styles, meth-
ods, and strategies to be discussed in this book will begin with three
general approaches to forex trading in common use: position trad-
ing, swing trading, and day trading. Traders generally choose (or
evolve into) an approach based on their personality, experience, and
risk appetite, among other factors.
129
cc0055..iinndddd 112299 11//1133//0099 1100::0044::5522 AAMM

Foreign Exchange Trading Methods and Strategies
P
osition Trading — Settling in for the Long T erm
As its label suggests, position trading is all about taking a direc-
tional market position and holding it for as long as the trade makes
sense from a trend standpoint. This usually means that positions are
held longer - term. In the fast - moving, impatient world of foreign
exchange trading, longer - term could mean anywhere from as short
as a week or a month to as long as a year, or possibly more. Most
individuals trading foreign exchange on a retail basis do not have
the patience to be position traders. This is somewhat unfortunate,
as position trading can be one of the most profi table styles of trad-
ing due to the fact that many currencies tend to trend exception-
ally well on a longer - term basis. Only those position traders who
have the patience to stick with the trend and let their profi ts run are
generally able to capitalize substantially on these longer- term price
moves.
Unlike swing trading and day trading, which will both be dis-
cussed later in this chapter, position trading usually relies substan-
tially on fundamental analysis, along with longer- term technical
analysis. Other than in the realm of ultra - short - term news trading,
which will also be discussed later in this chapter, fundamental analy-
sis is usually geared toward longer - term price forecasts rather than
toward the short - term swing- to - swing movements that are prima-
rily the domain of technical analysis. As discussed in Chapter 4 , fun-
damental analysis concerns itself with the economic conditions that
drive the major market movements. These economic conditions,
which include interest rates, infl ation, and economic growth, help
to determine the value of a national currency over time. The general
130
cc0055..iinndddd 113300 11//1133//0099 1100::0044::5522 AAMM

Position Trading—Settling in for the Long Term
direction of change in this currency value over the long run is what
interests position traders the most.
As mentioned in the beginning of this chapter, position trading
can be considered very similar to trend trading. One of the differ-
ences between these two approaches is the type of analysis that is
generally emphasized. Whereas position traders may often rely to a
signifi cant extent on long - term fundamentals along with technicals,
trend traders (or trend followers) are very often almost exclusively
technical in nature. Of course, this generalization is far from a clear -
cut delineation, but it describes the broad characteristics of these
two approaches suffi ciently. Similarly, carry trading, where traders
hold interest - positive positions in order to benefi t from both regular
interest payments and exchange rate profi ts, can be considered yet
another form of position trading. Both trend trading and carry trad-
ing will be discussed later in this chapter.
How exactly does a position trader in the foreign exchange mar-
ket decide which position(s) to take? Although there are countless
factors and nuances that may enter into the decision- making picture,
the basic concept can be relatively simple. Forex position traders
weigh strength and weakness in currencies by looking into a myriad
of underlying fundamental and technical factors. They then establish
positions in currency pairs according to these views. Here, the dis-
cussion will focus on the fundamental aspects of position trading. In
the section on trend trading, the technical aspects will be discussed.
Let us suppose that a position trader performs ongoing analy-
sis on economic conditions surrounding the major currencies, and
decides that the U.S. dollar is indicating signifi cant fundamen-
tal weakness going forward, while the euro is indicating signifi cant
131
cc0055..iinndddd 113311 11//1133//0099 1100::0044::5522 AAMM

Foreign Exchange Trading Methods and Strategies
fundamental strength going forward. This conclusion could have
stemmed from any number and combination of information sources
from both countries/regions, including comments on central bank
policy by a bank president, the state of infl ationary pressure in the
economy, the recent rate of economic growth, the likelihood of an
impending recession, and so on.
After this fundamental analysis is duly performed, the trader may
decide that there is suffi cient evidence supporting overall weakness
in the U.S. dollar combined with overall strength in the euro, and
that this will be the likeliest projected scenario for at least the next
six months. The next step is for the position trader to seek to estab-
lish a long position in the EUR/USD currency pair, which simul-
taneously provides the trader with a long euro position and a short
dollar position. This combined trade positioning fulfi lls the trader ’s
fundamental outlook on both currencies.
Pinpointing the most advantageous trade entry timing, as well
as setting risk - managed exit strategies, would then be best accom-
plished with the use of technical analysis. But the longer- term
directional basis for the position trade is suffi ciently served by fun-
damental analysis alone.
The true strength of position trading using fundamental analysis
in this manner lies in the concept of pairing strength with weak-
ness. This concept fi ts the foreign exchange market extremely well
because of the simple fact that all currencies are traded in pairs,
unlike in other fi nancial trading markets. Since trading forex requires
a directional commitment on two currencies for each trade, position
trading with the strength/weakness model is perhaps the most logical
fundamental method for approaching long - term foreign exchange
132
cc0055..iinndddd 113322 11//1133//0099 1100::0044::5533 AAMM

Position Trading—Settling in for the Long Term
trading. Buying one currency because it looks like it will become
stronger is a good way to trade. But buying one currency because
it looks like it will become stronger while simultaneously selling
(or shorting) another currency because it looks like it will become
weaker is an even better way to trade.
The fi rst step in the process of forex position trading is to per-
form ongoing fundamental research and analysis on all of the major
tradable currencies. This can be accomplished through careful scru-
tiny of central bank policy statements, objective assessments of eco-
nomic growth factors, and close monitoring of global economic
news. When the currencies with the strongest positive future pros-
pects and the ones with the strongest negative future prospects at
any given point in time are identifi ed, the opposite currencies can
then be paired.
So, for example, within a pool of well - researched currencies, let
us suppose that AUD and JPY happen to be deemed the strongest
potential gainers in the group for the foreseeable future, while the
CAD and CHF are deemed to be the strongest potential losers.
The opposites could then be paired together for potential position
trades consisting of long AUD/CAD, short CAD/JPY, long AUD/
CHF and/or short CHF/JPY. After these trades are entered with the
help of technical analysis, the positions would then be held for as
long as they continued to move in the correct general direction, dis-
regarding minor corrective swings and market noise.
From the standpoint of disciplined trading, as will be discussed in
Chapter 6 , position trading may perhaps be the most diffi cult method
for approaching the foreign exchange markets, especially for begin-
ners. It requires a great deal of patience and faith in one ’s own analysis
133
cc0055..iinndddd 113333 11//1133//0099 1100::0044::5533 AAMM

Foreign Exchange Trading Methods and Strategies
to weather the inevitable swings against one ’s entrenched positions,
not to mention excellent risk and money management. But if mas-
tered properly along with some well - planned entry and exit tech-
niques, this style of trading can be one of the most effective methods
for extracting long - term profi ts from the foreign exchange markets.
S
wing Trading — Riding the Waves
Also among the most popular methods of trading forex, swing
trading differs considerably from position trading in almost every
way. For the most part, swing traders generally ignore fundamen-
tal information and concentrate almost exclusively on the techni-
cals. The only time swing traders will generally pay any attention to
the fundamentals is when they check the schedule for fundamental
news announcements so that they can avoid trading during market -
moving economic data releases.
Much like its label suggests, swing trading is all about trading
swings, or turns, in the market. Any price action that occurs over
time in any fi nancial trading market will be made up of countless
short - to medium- term swings both up and down. This will occur
whether the market is in trending mode (overall price movement
in one general direction) or ranging mode (sideways price action).
Swing traders attempt to capitalize on all of these swings.
Another way in which swing trading differs considerably from
position trading lies in the general duration of trades. Whereas posi-
tion traders will attempt to ride a trend as long as it remains intact,
swing traders will have slipped in and out of a long- term trend
many times over before the trend is fi nally exhausted.
134
cc0055..iinndddd 113344 11//1133//0099 1100::0044::5533 AAMM

Swing Trading—Riding the Waves
However, many traders like to defi ne swing trading strictly
in terms of the duration of each trade. Some would say that the
ideal swing trade should be held for two to fi ve days, while oth-
ers may say it should be one to four days. This viewpoint is very
common, but perhaps somewhat misinformed. Much more impor-
tant than the duration of the trade are the goals and principles
behind this method of foreign exchange trading. The primary
goal of swing trading is to exploit the natural advances and declines
that are inevitable in any market, regardless of the timeframe. The
time span of the trade is infi nitely less of a factor in defi ning suc-
cessful swing trading than the timing of the trade. Timing is one
of the primary keys to executing good swing trades. After executing
a well - timed entry, the trader should then determine the duration
of the trade by how much the market is willing to offer on that
particular swing, and not by some arbitrarily predetermined period
of time.
As a classic technical approach to the markets, swing trading uti-
lizes the most salient aspects of technical analysis as its main tools.
This includes the pillars of support and resistance, trend, momentum,
and volatility. With these tools, swing traders tackle the markets by
identifying short - term, tradable turns (or swings) within the context
of a larger trend or trading range. In a trend, this could mean trading
pullbacks in the direction of the trend. In a trading range, this could
mean trading the up - and - down price oscillations between support
and resistance. Specifi c technical tools used in swing trading include
trendlines, horizontal support and resistance lines, moving averages,
and oscillators. As for charting timeframes, perhaps the most popular
ones for swing traders are generally anywhere from the one - hour
135
cc0055..iinndddd 113355 11//1133//0099 1100::0044::5533 AAMM

Foreign Exchange Trading Methods and Strategies
chart (where each bar/candlestick is worth an hour of price move-
ment) to the four - hour and daily charts.
Swing trading allows traders to pinpoint precise, high - probability
entries and exits for each and every trade, based soundly upon the
technicals. A typical swing trade begins with a perception by the
trader that a market turn might be in the midst of occurring. This
perception could be fueled by a host of different triggers, whether
it is an oscillator reaching severely overbought or oversold, a price -
oscillator divergence occurring (described later in this chapter),
a reversal chart pattern forming (also described later in this chap-
ter), a break of a trendline occurring, or price reaching a signifi cant
support/resistance level. Any or a combination of these events, or
other technical indications, could trigger the trader ’s perception that
an impending turn could potentially occur.
Once the initial perception is triggered, the prudent swing
trader immediately searches for confi rmation. For example, if the
initial perception is triggered by a divergence indication, the trader
will check to see if any other patterns, support/resistance levels and/
or oscillators are confi rming an impending swing. If there is indeed
confi rmation, the experienced swing trader would then consider
possible entries and exits (stop losses and profi t targets) to determine
if the trade is viable from a risk/reward perspective (as discussed in
Chapter 6 ).
Given the prevailing trade conditions, if the reward - to - risk ratio
appears to be sound, the swing trader would then decide upon the
size and leverage of the trade if these factors have not already been
predetermined. The fi nal step in the swing trading decision process
would then be to prepare to enter the trade with either a market
136
cc0055..iinndddd 113366 11//1133//0099 1100::0044::5533 AAMM

Day Trading—In and Out, Day In and Day Out
order or a stop/limit entry order. Simultaneously, the trader would
also set stop loss and/or trailing stop parameters, as well as an appro-
priate profi t target according to the trading plan.
For short - to medium - term timeframes, swing trading can poten-
tially be a very-high - probability approach to forex. Price swings are
extremely prevalent in every fi nancial trading market and on every
charting timeframe. The up and down swings occur naturally dur-
ing all market conditions, whether in a trending market or a trading
range. Moreover, setting risk management controls in the form of
stop losses, as well as determining optimal risk/reward parameters,
can be extremely precise and straightforward for the typical swing
trade.
D
ay Trading — In and Out, Day In and Day Out
The majority of beginning forex traders try their hand fi rst at day
trading. This is perhaps due to the fact that this style of trading is
generally the most exciting and fast- paced of the different styles.
There are certainly traders who have made a consistently profi table
living through day trading currencies, but it is defi nitely not as easy
as it may initially appear to be.
Day trading is usually defi ned as the entering and exiting of
positions within a single trading day. This means that few, if any,
trades are held over to the next trading day. It also means that day
traders must necessarily attempt to extract small profi ts from quick
movements on the shortest of charting timeframes, usually anywhere
from the 1 - minute chart (where each bar/candlestick is worth one
minute of price movement) to the 5 - minute, 10 - minute, 15 - minute,
137
cc0055..iinndddd 113377 11//1133//0099 1100::0044::5544 AAMM

Foreign Exchange Trading Methods and Strategies
30 - minute, and everything in between. Occasionally, timeframes as
long as the 1 -h our chart are used for day trading.
Trading on the shortest timeframes in this manner works well
only if the trader possesses the requisite discipline, technique, and
money management skills to overcome the formidable odds sur-
rounding this style of trading. One rather considerable diffi culty
with short - term day trading is the fact that a necessarily small
number of pips is targeted for each trade’ s profi t objective, making
the cost of the bid/ask spread a very signifi cant prohibiting factor.
For example, if a typical profi t objective is around 20 pips for a day
trade, a 3 - pip spread alone accounts for an immediate handicap of
15% of the projected profi t. This occurs even before there is actu-
ally any price movement on the trade. The day trader therefore has a
distinct statistical disadvantage from the outset. In contrast, the 3 - pip
spread on a targeted 60- pip swing trade or a 300- pip position trade
would represent an immediate handicap of only 5% or 1% of pro-
jected profi t, respectively.
That being said, day trading can still be a viable method of
approaching forex for experienced and determined traders. The tech-
niques employed by day traders vary widely. Often, these techniques
involve breakouts of short- t erm support and resistance levels. This
could mean a breakout of a low volatility trading range, or a sharp
move at the opening of an active currency market like London or
New York. Breakouts are discussed in more depth later in the chapter.
Other times, day traders will trade purely based upon indi-
cator confi rmations. For example, a day trader may have a rule
to open a long trade if the 5- period exponential moving average
(EMA) crosses above the 20 - period EMA, but only if the 14 - period
138
cc0055..iinndddd 113388 11//1133//0099 1100::0044::5544 AAMM

Day Trading—In and Out, Day In and Day Out
Relative Strength Index (RSI) has also crossed above 30 and the
slope of the MACD histogram is up. (Note: These trading rules were
meant to serve as an arbitrary example, and were not actually tested
as part of a trading strategy.)
Because day trading currencies can be extremely fast and intense,
there is usually insuffi cient time or opportunity to perform discre-
tionary market analysis in a leisurely manner. Therefore, more than
with any other trading style, day trading often requires concrete
trading rules that can be followed without much thinking on the
part of the trader. Clear and simple rules that are meant to be fol-
lowed to the letter generally work best for ultra short - term day trad-
ers. For these traders, quick thinking and quick reactions are among
the most important traits to possess.
As mentioned, day trading currencies is often indicator - based.
Traders may overlay several indicators on their price charts such as
moving averages, Bollinger Bands, or a host of others. In addition,
they will also frequently add an oscillator or two running vertically
above or below price such as the MACD, RSI, or Stochastics. Using
this type of methodology, trading foreign exchange becomes as rote
and straightforward as waiting for the various indicators to point in
the same direction at the same time. Although the rules here may be
simple, however, this style of trading is anything but easy. It requires
a great deal of discipline to follow strict, indicator - based day trading
rules without allowing emotions to interfere in the process.
Besides indicator- based trading, many day traders will trade
purely based upon breakouts of support and resistance. To denote
these support and resistance levels, these traders may manually draw
horizontal lines on their charts depicting levels where price turned
139
cc0055..iinndddd 113399 11//1133//0099 1100::0044::5544 AAMM

Foreign Exchange Trading Methods and Strategies
or consolidated in the recent past. This method of visual determi-
nation is perhaps one of the most accurate ways of representing
potential support and resistance. As mentioned in Chapter 3 , a tenet
of technical analysis is that over time, price will visit and turn at cer-
tain levels repeatedly (otherwise known as support/resistance).
Other popular short- term day trading methods for determining
support and resistance include pivot points, Fibonacci retracements,
and trendlines. Day traders will use the levels derived from these
studies to identify either breakouts of the lines or bounces off the
lines. All of these techniques will be discussed in more detail further
on in this chapter.
Day trading appeals to the common human interest in immedi-
ate gratifi cation. Many traders who gravitate toward day trading are
lured by the illusory promise of instant profi ts for little effort. This
particular promise is an empty one. Nevertheless, if approached in
the correct manner with good technique and excellent risk/money
management, day trading can potentially become a profi table pursuit.
T
rend Trading — Going with the Flow
Day trading, swing trading, and position trading, as just described,
are general approaches to trading foreign exchange. This trend trad-
ing section begins a more in- depth look at the methods and strate-
gies commonly used by foreign exchange traders.
Trend trading, or trend following, is very similar to the general
position trading approach used by longer - term traders/investors.
The main distinction, as mentioned earlier, lies in the types of analy-
sis that are generally emphasized. Position traders will usually utilize
140
cc0055..iinndddd 114400 11//1133//0099 1100::0044::5544 AAMM

Trend Trading—Going with the Flow
both technical and fundamental analysis in their decision- making
processes. In contrast, trend followers will commonly employ tech-
nical analysis almost exclusively.
The goal of trend trading is to jump on a trend when the direc-
tion is technically clear, and ride it as long as it is intact. Technical
trend following purists may identify uptrends when clear higher
lows and higher highs begin appearing on a chart. By the same
token, downtrends are identifi ed by lower highs and lower lows.
Trendlines and parallel trend channels will often be used to outline
these trends on a chart.
Another method of measuring the existence and strength of a
trend is the use of moving averages, where the slope of a moving
average may indicate whether there is a current uptrend, down-
trend, or neither. Within a trend-trading context, moving averages
can also be used to give crossover signals (as described in Chapter 3 ).
Using this technique, if price crossed above a certain moving aver-
age it would be a buy signal, while a cross below would be a sell sig-
nal. Alternatively, a cross of a shorter moving average above a longer
moving average would be a buy signal, while a cross below would
be a sell signal. Moving averages are often used in this way, but the
diffi culty lies in the frequent false signals, where several unprofi table
crosses occur in succession, otherwise known as whipsaw.
Yet another trend measurement tool that is widely u sed, but argu-
ably weaker than the prior two methods, is the Average Directional
Index (ADX), which oscillates to display the strength and existence
of a trend on a currency chart. Many other indicators and studies are
also used to identify trending conditions, but the three methods just
mentioned are probably the most common. Additionally, breakouts
141
cc0055..iinndddd 114411 11//1133//0099 1100::0044::5544 AAMM

Foreign Exchange Trading Methods and Strategies
in the direction of the general trend are another way of confi rming
trend continuation, but this will be discussed further in the section
on breakout trading.
Once a trend is identifi ed and measured using technical studies,
the stage of the trend needs to be identifi ed. Clearly, getting in at the
beginning or middle of a trend run is vastly preferable to getting in
late. Although there are no clear - cut delineations among the three
stages, each stage can be discerned by its general characteristics.
If higher lows and higher highs begin occurring right after a
well - defi ned downtrend or prolonged price consolidation, it could
be a sign that an uptrend is in its early stage. Prudent trend trad-
ers may prefer to avoid entry at these fi rst signs of trend change. In
hindsight, this stage represents the best possible entry point, but at
the time of decision it is full of uncertainty.
When the trend moves onto its middle stage, it is considered
to be well - established with consistent prior evidence that price is
making progress in one direction. It is at this point that many trend
traders will jump on the trend, fueling it even further in the same
direction. From a day trading or swing trading perspective, this type
of entry in the middle of a trend is simply too late. From a position
trading and trend trading perspective, however, it can be considered
a sensible entry targeting long - term profi ts.
When it comes to the late stage of a trend, most of the major
market players are already in position and looking to take profi ts.
This late stage is perhaps the worst possible time to enter into a
trend. But how would a trader know if this stage has been reached,
or if the trend still has enough momentum to move much further?
The answer to this question is diffi cult. There really is no way of
142
cc0055..iinndddd 114422 11//1133//0099 1100::0044::5544 AAMM

Trend Trading—Going with the Flow
knowing defi nitively until one can look back in hindsight and pin-
point the very end of the trend on a chart. At the same time, how-
ever, many clues will appear on the chart in real - time that hint at
the near- end of a trend, including failures to reach higher highs in
an uptrend (or lower lows in a downtrend), prolonged consolida-
tions, and signifi cantly diminished volatility. In any event, it is much
better to play it safe by avoiding potential late stage entries alto-
gether rather than risk buying at the highs or selling at the lows.
Once a trend and its stage have been identifi ed, the next step for
a trend trader is to decide on the timing and location of entry.
For trend traders, this decision is not nearly as crucial as it is for
shorter - term swing traders and day traders. Riding long- term trends
is all about letting profi ts run as far as possible. With this mental-
ity, trend traders are not as concerned about pinpointing a perfectly
timed entry as a shorter- term trader might be. That being said,
however, the better the entry the better the potential profi t picture.
Therefore, trend traders generally prefer to enter into a trend at high
probability locations within the trend.
As shown in Exhibit 5.1 , this would entail buying on the dips
in an uptrend, or the temporary downward retracements within
the overall uptrend. During a downtrend, it would entail short -
selling on the rallies, or the temporary upward retracements within
the overall downtrend. These areas constitute high probability
entries for a very clear reason. In the case of an uptrend, buying
“c heap ” when price is steadily appreciating could perhaps be con-
sidered the most intelligent way to conduct trades in any type of
business. The same general principle holds true, but in the opposite
direction, for downtrends.
143
cc0055..iinndddd 114433 11//1133//0099 1100::0044::5555 AAMM

Foreign Exchange Trading Methods and Strategies
EXHIBIT 5.1
Buying on the Dips
Source: FX Solutions – FX AccuCharts
Once a trend has been entered, the trend trader must manage
the position, albeit not as actively as a shorter - term trader might
need to. It should be kept in mind here that the primary principle
of trend trading is to let profi ts run while cutting losses short. This
is the cornerstone of long- term trend following. With short - term
swing trading and day trading, letting profi ts run is much less of a
focus because these types of traders specialize in exploiting relatively
minor price fl uctuations. In contrast, trend traders are generally not
so quick to take profi ts. These longer - term traders need to establish
an excellent reward - to - risk ratio (as will be discussed in Chapter 6 )
in order for their few large profi ts to surpass the many small losses
144
cc0055..iinndddd 114444 11//1133//0099 1100::0044::5555 AAMM

Trend Trading—Going with the Flow
that are incurred during up - and - down whipsaws and false trend
moves. So when a good, strong trend is found, the trend trader must
ride it for all it is worth.
This means that perhaps the best way to manage established
trend positions is through the use of trailing stop losses, whether
manual or automated. These dynamic stop losses follow price such
that profi ts are locked in as the position accumulates gains. With
an automated trailing stop loss, the market is followed by a certain
number of pips predetermined by the trader. A manual trailing stop
loss is often a more preferred method of managing a trend trade. In
an uptrend situation, for example, the trader would actually move
the stop loss manually. A logical location for each move of the stop
loss would be right below the last swing low (or dip). If price con-
tinues up, more gains are locked in, and the trailing stop loss gets
moved to progressively higher dips. If price breaks below the last
dip, however, it is a solid indication that the uptrend might possi-
bly be ending. The manual trailing stop loss then promptly takes the
trader out of the position, realizing all of the accumulated profi ts.
Other ways to manage trend trades besides using trailing stop
losses include scaling in and scaling out of position. Scaling into
position entails entering initially with a small, fractional trade size,
and then adding onto the position as the trend develops further. This
can be a great way to test the waters without being fully committed
from the outset. If the trend fails initially, the loss is not excessive. If,
however, the trend develops signifi cantly, a full - sized position can be
quickly scaled in.
Scaling out is just the opposite. Once a full position has matured,
and there are indications of a possible waning of trend momentum,
145
cc0055..iinndddd 114455 11//1133//0099 1100::0044::5555 AAMM

Foreign Exchange Trading Methods and Strategies
parts of the position may be closed in succession. The logic of this
strategy is to lock in and realize profi ts on part of the position while
allowing another part to take advantage of any further remaining
momentum.
Finally, if the trend trade is not exited due to price hitting a stop
loss (whether static or trailing) or to the trader scaling out of posi-
tion, a trade exit may also be made when a profi t target is hit. In
initially setting the profi t target, the trend trader should take into
consideration a minimum reward - to - risk ratio for this type of trade,
as well as the prevailing market conditions evident on the chart.
On longer- term trend trades, the reward - to - risk ratio, as will be
discussed in Chapter 6 , should preferably be set as high as possible.
Therefore, the profi t target should ideally be set to several times
the magnitude of the initial stop loss. This, by defi nition, is the man-
ifestation of the popular trading proverb, “ Let your profi ts run and
cut your losses short.” At the same time, however, the market will
give only what it has to give. In other words, a high reward - to - risk
ratio cannot be forced, as profi t potential depends solely upon mar-
ket conditions. For this reason, the trailing stop loss is generally the
preferred method for exiting trend trades over the more arbitrary
profi t target method.
Trend trading is one of the most effective strategies for approach-
ing foreign exchange trading. Many of the most successful and well-
known traders, whether they trade stocks, futures, or currencies,
consider themselves long - term trend traders. It is perhaps the best
single method for capturing major currency price movements, espe-
cially since foreign exchange is generally considered to be a market
that trends frequently.
146
cc0055..iinndddd 114466 11//1133//0099 1100::0044::5555 AAMM

Range Trading—Between a Rock and a Hard Place
R
ange Trading — Between a Rock and
a Hard Place
If the foreign exchange market trends often, what is it doing when it
is not trending? Most likely, it is trading in a range. Ranges are peri-
ods when price moves up and down without a clear directional trend.
Some would characterize the price action during a range as “ sideways, ”
or horizontal. Generally sp eaking, this kind of directionless price move-
ment is bounded on a top extreme by a resistance line and on a bottom
extreme by a support line. Exhibit 5.2 illustrates a typical trading range.
It is between these support and resistance boundaries that the
range trading opportunities lie. Range trading simply involves
EXHIBIT 5.2
Trading Range
Source: FX Solutions -– FX AccuCharts
147
cc0055..iinndddd 114477 11//1133//0099 1100::0044::5566 AAMM

Foreign Exchange Trading Methods and Strategies
identifying and capitalizing upon the turns within a horizontal trad-
ing range. These turns are also considered swings, so the techniques
of range trading are often an important component of a swing trad-
er ’s repertoire.
While range trading may be a popular strategy, some traders,
especially those that concentrate on following trends, consider it to
be a much lower probability method. This is primarily because of
the fact that the upside in range trading is necessarily capped at the
other side of the range. By defi nition, range traders do not let their
profi ts run the way trend traders do. As this is true, range traders can
increase their potential upside by setting a minimum threshold in
terms of the height of the ranges that they are willing to trade.
For example, a 20- pip range that forms on the GBP/USD pair
during Asian session is not really worth range trading. This type of
range is best reserved for breakout trading, which will be discussed
in the next section. The height of the range is just too diminutive to
make it worthwhile as a range trading opportunity. In other words,
the potential profi t is not suffi cient to justify the risk. A 300 - pip
range, however, can certainly offer range traders an abundance of
good potential trading opportunities that can be very worthwhile.
If stop losses are always placed just beyond the support or resistance
level from which a range trade is initiated, a profi t target (on the
other side of the range) that is further away would clearly offer a
higher probability trade from a risk/reward perspective. Therefore,
a prudent range trading approach should include some minimum
criteria for the height of the range.
Once the height of a potential range is established by at least two
approximate touches of both support and resistance, preparation for
148
cc0055..iinndddd 114488 11//1133//0099 1100::0044::5566 AAMM

Range Trading—Between a Rock and a Hard Place
range trading can begin. Most range traders will use the common
horizontal lines on their charts to denote the support and resistance
levels in a range. Some, however, will use dynamic bands, most nota-
bly the Bollinger Bands, to outline these levels. Tools like the Bollinger
Bands can certainly be useful in trading ranges that do not possess very
strictly d efi ned upper and lower bounds. With the use of Bollinger
Bands, however, a range trader should also monitor the slope of the
simple moving average running through the middle of the Bands to
ensure that it is indeed fl at or near - fl at. Only in this way can the trader
be adequately confi dent that a horizontal range is indeed in place.
On the establishment of the range using one of the methods
mentioned, the range trader might then simply use a common oscil-
lator like Stochastics or RSI to help indicate potential turns at or
near resistance and support. The most common method of reading
these oscillators is to identify the point at which they cross the line
exiting overbought or oversold, which denotes a possible impending
turn. This is illustrated in Exhibit 5.3.
Besides the oscillator indications, another turn confi rmation
can be found at the break of an intra- range trendline, as shown in
Exhibit 5.4 .
Although requiring a trendline break confi rmation in this fashion
will almost always lead to a relatively late trade entry, it can present
valuable evidence that a turn within the range has indeed occurred.
A tighter stop loss can then be placed on the other side of the trend-
line break as opposed to the other side of the range support/resistance.
Range trading can be an effective method for trading foreign
exchange during periods when there is no discernible trend in
the market. During these periods when price tends to bounce
149
cc0055..iinndddd 114499 11//1133//0099 1100::0044::5566 AAMM

Foreign Exchange Trading Methods and Strategies
EXHIBIT 5.3
Stochastics Turns from
Overbought/Oversold
Source: FX Solutions - FX AccuCharts
repeatedly between horizontal resistance and support, traders must
either utilize methods similar to those described above, or stay out
of the market altogether. If an established range has suffi cient height,
trading the bounces can be a potentially effective approach to sus-
tained non trending market conditions.
B
reakout Trading (and Fading) — Shooting for
the Stars
Where range trading attempts to capitalize on turns that respect
established support and resistance levels, breakout trading is just
150
cc0055..iinndddd 115500 11//1133//0099 1100::0044::5566 AAMM

Breakout Trading (and Fading)—Shooting for the Stars
EXHIBIT 5.4
Intra - Range Trendline Breakouts
Source: FX Solutions – FX AccuCharts
the opposite. Foreign exchange traders who specialize in breakouts
spend their time looking for violations of support and resistance.
Exhibit 5.5 illustrates a typical forex breakout opportunity.
To many, breakout trading makes more sense than any other
method of trading, as a breakout with strong momentum can poten-
tially yield a great deal of pips for the relatively small amount of risk
involved. For this reason, a lot of traders gravitate immediately to
trading breakouts. But these traders soon realize that it is not as easy
as it may initially appear to be. This is because many of the major
breakouts that occur in today ’s foreign exchange markets tend to be
false breakouts. This is when a breakout occurs without any follow
151
cc0055..iinndddd 115511 11//1133//0099 1100::0044::5577 AAMM

Foreign Exchange Trading Methods and Strategies
EXHIBIT 5.5
Major Horizontal Support Break
Source: FX Solutions – FX AccuCharts
through and then reverses, trapping all of the breakout traders who
hastily jumped on the opportunity.
False breakouts of this nature tend to be of two types. The fi rst
can be called a “ fakeout, ” where a support/resistance line is breached
slightly, but then price just turns back and goes in the oppo-
site direction as soon as most of the breakout traders get trapped.
This type of false break is akin to price respecting support/resist-
ance after breaching it only slightly. The second type of false break
is called a premature breakout, where a slight breakout occurs,
then turns around to go back in the opposite direction, and then
fi nally turns once again to perform a true breakout on a subsequent
152
cc0055..iinndddd 115522 11//1133//0099 1100::0044::5577 AAMM

Breakout Trading (and Fading)—Shooting for the Stars
attempt. Both of these types of false breaks can be extremely frus-
trating for breakout traders.
As a reaction to the proliferation of false breaks on currency
charts, some former breakout traders have transformed into what
are called breakout “ faders,” where they fade, or trade against, major
breakouts. Trading against a dominant movement in this way can also
be a risky strategy, but with the proper risk controls and money man-
agement in place, it can be an effective approach in many instances.
Whether a trader fades or trades a breakout, the techniques used
to denote relevant support and resistance levels is identical. The sim-
plest, and perhaps most reliable, method involves manually drawing
horizontal lines on a chart that correspond to previous market turns.
As explained in Chapter 3 , horizontal support and resistance are partly
derived from traders ’ collective memory of a given price level, and
whether the general consensus considers that level relatively high or
relatively low. If a price level is considered relatively low (support),
buying activity at that level should occur. Conversely, if a price level
is considered relatively high (resistance), selling activity should occur.
When these activities occur on a major basis by many market partici-
pants, the end result should generally be a turn at support or resistance.
Therefore, drawing a horizontal line extending from a previous turn
makes a lot of sense. Traders’ memories of relative price levels are clear-
est at the levels of previous market turns. That is one of the reasons that
we frequently see price turn repeatedly at a certain level over a pro-
longed period of time. Exhibit 5 .6 illustrates the technique of m anually
drawing horizontal support and resistance lines at market turns.
In the case of breakouts, the logic is equally simple. The reason-
ing is that price should respect previously established support and
153
cc0055..iinndddd 115533 11//1133//0099 1100::0044::5577 AAMM

Foreign Exchange Trading Methods and Strategies
EXHIBIT 5.6
Manually Drawn Horizontal Lines
Source: FX Solutions – FX AccuCharts
resistance levels under normal circumstances, but if there is a strong
enough catalyst for pushing price to break a given level, that breach
should carry enough momentum to take price to the next fur-
ther support/resistance level. If the breakout level in question is a
very-long - term or all - time high or low, where a further established
support/resistance level does not exist, the assumption is that price
will subsequently make new highs/lows somewhere signifi cantly
beyond the broken level. As we saw in the case of false breakouts,
however, this assumption does not always hold true.
Besides the technique of manually drawn horizontal lines for
denoting support and resistance levels, there are also several other
154
cc0055..iinndddd 115544 11//1133//0099 1100::0044::5577 AAMM

Breakout Trading (and Fading)—Shooting for the Stars
EXHIBIT 5.7
Trendline Break
Source: FX Solutions – FX AccuCharts
methods available that can be used in breakout trading. These
other methods, however, will usually yield different price levels than
the horizontal line technique. They include: dynamic trendlines
(as illustrated in Exhibit 5 .7 ), chart patterns (described later in this
chapter), pivot points and Fibonacci retracements (also described
later in this chapter), and moving averages.
However support and resistance are measured, the concept of
trading breakouts is straightforward. A trader customarily enters
the breakout trade beyond the actual breakout point, balancing the
goal of avoiding a false breakout with the goal of getting in as early
as possible for a larger profi t potential. A hard stop loss is generally
155
cc0055..iinndddd 115555 11//1133//0099 1100::0044::5588 AAMM

Foreign Exchange Trading Methods and Strategies
placed right before the breakout point where, if it is hit, the price
move will have proven itself to be a false or premature breakout. This
straightforward stop loss placement is one of the primary strengths of
breakout trading, as it ensures tightly controlled downside risk, while
boosting the potential reward - to - risk profi le of the trade.
One very important and common variation on the traditional
breakout is called the pullback/throwback. These phenomena occur
when momentum on a breakout wanes shortly after the break, result-
ing in an extra move. See Exhibit 5.8 for an illustration of typical
pullback and throwback moves. A throwback is simply a return to the
point of breakout after an upward break. A pullback is a return to
the point of breakdown after a downward break. In either direction,
if the break is true (which means it carries real directional momen-
tum) price should hit and bounce off the point of breakout, and then
surpass the point at which breakout momentum waned and price
turned. On a true break, price should then continue in the breakout
EXHIBIT 5.8
Pullback and Throwback
Throwback
Breakout level
Pullback
Breakout level
156
cc0055..iinndddd 115566 11//1133//0099 1100::0044::5588 AAMM

Breakout Trading (and Fading)—Shooting for the Stars
direction as if the pullback or throwback never occurred. Some
prudent breakout traders will wait for a pullback/throwback before
getting in on a breakout trade. Traders who do so may miss some
potential trading opportunities (as many breakouts do not have pull-
backs or throwbacks), but that extra patience often pays off in better -
positioned breakout trades with somewhat reduced risk.
Like range trading, breakout trading is a very popular strategy
for approaching forex. Breakouts occur frequently on currency
charts. Whether these breakouts are real or false, however, is the dif-
fi culty in implementing this methodology. But since the nature of
breakout trading inherently possesses an extremely straightforward
and benefi cial method for setting optimal risk management controls
(stop losses), trading in this manner can be a very high probability
method for approaching the foreign exchange markets.
EXECUTIVE INSIGHT
Ed Ponsi
Ed Ponsi, president of F XEducator.com and author of F orex
Patterns and Probabilities, is well - known in the industry as a
top trader, money manager, and forex trading educator. He has
advised hedge funds, institutional traders, and individual traders
of all levels of skill and experience, and has become one of the
most sought - after lecturers in the fi nancial world.
Ponsi states:
“ Regarding technique, I ’ m primarily a trend trader. I look
for situations where the technicals mesh with the fun-
damentals — if there is a clear trend in place, and if the
157
cc0055..iinndddd 115577 11//1133//0099 1100::0044::5599 AAMM

Foreign Exchange Trading Methods and Strategies
EXECUTIVE INSIGHT (CONTINUED)
fundamentals confi rm what I see on the chart, I’ m going
to try to grab a chunk of that trend.
One thing I ’ m very cautious about is trading the
breakout — if the trend is moving upwards, I want to go
long but I don ’t want to buy a currency as it’ s hitting
new highs. Because there are so many false breakouts
in forex trading, my strategy is to try to catch the pull-
backs. That way, even if the currency pair fails to break
through, there is still some potential for profi t when the
pair reaches resistance.
One of my favorite situations is a false breakout that
moves against the trend. These types of breakouts have
a high failure rate, and they also set the stage for a ‘ sling-
shot ’ trade in the opposite direction. It’ s a great setup,
and I ’ m constantly looking for it.
If the trend is strong enough, I might not use a tar-
get at all; instead, I ’l l trail a stop. I like to trail stops
manually, moving them strategically instead of automati-
cally. That way, I can keep my stop beneath a trend line
or moving average, instead of moving it to an arbitrary
location — which is often exactly what happens when we
use automatic trailing stops. ”
P
attern Trading — Playing with Shapes
As mentioned in the previous section, pattern trading may be con-
sidered one form of breakout trading, depending upon which type
of chart pattern one might be referring to. There are essentially two
general types of chart patterns. First are the several multibar shapes
that together constitute one of the pillars of Western- style technical
analysis. These formations generally represent price consolidation, and
158
cc0055..iinndddd 115588 11//1133//0099 1100::0055::0000 AAMM

Pattern Trading—Playing with Shapes
include triangles, fl ags, pennants, wedges, rectangles, and head - and -
shoulders, among others. Many of the most important of these pat-
terns are illustrated and described in detail in Chapter 3 . For the most
part, all of these patterns are generally traded when a breakout of one
type or another occurs. Conversely, the second type of chart pattern —
candlestick patterns (also described in Chapter 3 ) — are not tied as
closely with breakout trading.
When speaking of pattern breakouts, it is helpful to delineate
which patterns are more often considered continuation patterns
and which ones are more often considered reversal patterns. These
delineations are far from rules, as any pattern could act as a con-
tinuation pattern or a reversal pattern, or neither (e.g., prolonged
consolidation after breakout). Traditionally, though, most patterns
have fulfi lled certain roles that historically have been somewhat reli-
able to a certain extent. A continuation pattern is simply a consol-
idation formation where price exits, or breaks out of, the pattern
in the direction of the trend that prevailed prior to the formation.
Conversely, a reversal pattern is a consolidation formation where
price exits, or breaks out of, the pattern in the opposite direction of
the trend that prevailed prior to the formation.
As indicated in Chapter 3 , of the most common patterns found
on currency charts, those that are generally considered reversal for-
mations include double tops/bottoms, triple tops/bottoms, and head -
and - shoulders tops/bottoms. Those that are most often considered
continuation patterns include fl ags, pennants, triangles, wedges, and
rectangles, among others.
When a continuation pattern approaches breakout on the side
of the pattern that would denote a continuation, technical traders
159
cc0055..iinndddd 115599 11//1133//0099 1100::0055::0000 AAMM

Foreign Exchange Trading Methods and Strategies
wait patiently for a break. At this point, it is treated as a breakout
trade with a similar type of entry and stop-loss placement as with
standard support/resistance breakout trades. The same holds true for
reversal patterns when price approaches breakout on the side of the
pattern that would denote a reversal. But in actuality, any type of
breakout of these patterns, whether in the direction of continuation
or reversal, is an eagerly watched and traded event.
One added benefi t of trading pattern breakouts lies in the pre-
cise structuring of profi t targets. Most patterns have a built - in profi t
target after breakout. A good example is the well - known head-
and - shoulders pattern. As shown in Exhibit 5 .9 , after price breaks
the neckline, the traditional signal for a trade, the target is derived
by measuring the height of the pattern from the top of the head
to the neckline, and then projecting that height from the neckline
break down for the profi t target. Similarly, for a rectangle consolida-
tion pattern, the height of the rectangle is projected up or down to
derive a profi t target after breakout. Triangles, fl ags, pennants, and
other chart patterns also have convenient, built - in targets.
EXHIBIT 5.9
Head - and -S houlders Profi t Target
Head and Shoulders Profit Target
Neckline
Profit Target
160
cc0055..iinndddd 116600 11//1133//0099 1100::0055::0000 AAMM

Fibonacci and Pivot Point Trading
In contrast with Western- style chart patterns, Japanese- style
candlestick patterns (the most important of which are described in
Chapter 3 ) are generally smaller chart formations that are not usu-
ally considered self - suffi cient trading signals. Rather, candlestick
patterns are more often utilized as important trade confi rmation
tools that are used in conjunction with other analytical methods.
For example, a hammer candle that occurs after a steep, well - defi ned
downtrend should not be taken by itself as a reversal signal to buy at
the low. But if this candle occurs right at a well - established support
level, the hammer can certainly represent a strong confi rmation that
a potential long trade may be in order.
Pattern trading is very similar to general support/resistance break-
out trading in terms of entries and exits, but with the added benefi t
of clear - cut profi t targets. Patterns appear very frequently on for-
eign currency charts, and can be found on all charting timeframes.
Through diligent chart - watching practice, any foreign exchange
trader can learn to spot even the most comprehensive pattern trad-
ing opportunities at a glance.
F
ibonacci and Pivot Point Trading — Magic
Numbers and Self - Fulfilling Prophecies
Also sharing some similar characteristics with general support/
resistance trading, the use of Fibonacci levels and pivot points are
often considered by their adherents as complete, self - contained trad-
ing strategies. The origins of these two methodologies are far from
intertwined with each other, but they are grouped together here
because they are commonly traded and analyzed in a similar fashion.
161
cc0055..iinndddd 116611 11//1133//0099 1100::0055::0000 AAMM

Foreign Exchange Trading Methods and Strategies
The horizontal price levels that are generated through Fibonacci
and pivot points are calculated using different methods, but they
both produce mathematically d erived support and resistance lev-
els that traders may use either as indicators of possible retracement
turns or as zones to watch for breakouts.
A substantial component of what makes these tools work sur-
prisingly well under diverse market conditions is the simple fact
that many traders, both large and small, utilize both Fibonacci and
pivot points in their trading. Therefore, the levels derived from these
popular tools become a sort of self- fulfi lling prophecy. This is where
signifi cant price action often occurs around these levels due to
the simple fact that many traders are watching and reacting to these
price levels. This phenomenon contributes to their frequent effec-
tiveness and accuracy in describing market movement.
As discussed in Chapter 3 on technical analysis tools, the mathemat-
ical theory now generally known as Fibonacci Theory is widely con-
sidered to have originated from a 13 th century Italian mathematician
appropriately named, Leonardo Fibonacci. He calculated a sequence of
numbers that led to the discovery of the Golden Ratio, 1.618, which is
a proportion that advocates say can be found in nature, science, music,
and even fi nancial markets. Derived from this ratio and its inverse of
0.618 are the Fibonacci percentages commonly used in technical analy-
sis today. There are several modern charting tools based on these per-
centages that have been created expressly for analyzing price charts, of
which the most popular is the standard Fibonacci retracement tool.
The most common Fibonacci retracement percentages, as shown
in Exhibit 5 .10 , include 23.6%, 38.2%, 50%, and 61.8%. Of these,
the latter three are perhaps the most closely followed by traders and
162
cc0055..iinndddd 116622 11//1133//0099 1100::0055::0000 AAMM

Fibonacci and Pivot Point Trading
EXHIBIT 5.10
Fibonacci Retracements
Source: FX Solutions – FX AccuCharts
analysts. Very often, one will read commentary from an analyst in
the fi nancial news proclaiming that price is approaching the 38.2%
retracement level, and that something important, like a turn, could
occur at this key level. Such is the widespread popularity of Fibonacci
retracements.
As mentioned earlier, Fibonacci retracements are customarily traded
in one of two ways — either as a breakout opportunity or as a retrace-
ment turn (a bounce). Both are viable methods of trading forex that
have built - in and clear- cut locations for stop- loss placement, much like
all support/resistance trading techniques. In addition, Fibonacci levels
can also be used as profi t targets for existing open trades.
163
cc0055..iinndddd 116633 11//1133//0099 1100::0055::0011 AAMM

Foreign Exchange Trading Methods and Strategies
Similar to Fibonacci retracements in both look and functionality
are pivot points. As described in Chapter 3 , pivot points originated
long ago in other fi nancial markets. They are derived mathemati-
cally from the previous day ’s key data points, including the high, low,
and close. The main pivot point price level, labeled “ PP, ” is calcu-
lated by taking the mean (average) of the high, low, and close from
the prior day ’s price action. From the PP, four other primary pivot
points are calculated, two above and two below the main PP. The
levels above are R1 and R2, where “ R ” stands for resistance.
The levels below are S1 and S2, where “ S ” stands for support. Often,
this pivot point structure is extended even further to R3 and S3.
Following are the calculations for the most common daily pivot
points. Although a pivot point calculator may readily be found online,
and is also a standard component of many charting software pack-
ages, it is still useful to know how these important levels are derived.
Beginning with the middle Pivot Point that is calculated from the
previous day ’s key price points, as per the following calculations,
the resulting support and resistance levels are subsequently derived.
R3 (Resistance 3) (cid:1) Y esterday ’ s High (cid:2) 2(PP (cid:3) Y esterday ’ s Low)
R2 (Resistance 2) (cid:1) PP (cid:2) (RI (cid:3) SI)
R1 (Resistance 1) (cid:1) 2 (cid:4) PP (cid:3) Y esterday ’ s Low
PP (Pivot Point) (cid:1) ( Yesterday ’ s High (cid:2) Y esterday ’ s Low
(cid:2) Y esterday ’ s Close) (cid:5) 3
S1 (Support 1) (cid:1) 2 (cid:4) PP - Y esterday ’ s High
S2 (Support 2) (cid:1) PP (cid:3) (R1 (cid:3) S1)
S3 (Support 3) (cid:1) Y esterday ’ s Low (cid:3) 2(Yesterday ’ s High (cid:3) PP)
164
cc0055..iinndddd 116644 11//1133//0099 1100::0055::0011 AAMM

Fibonacci and Pivot Point Trading
EXHIBIT 5.11
Pivot Points
Source: FX Solutions – FX AccuCharts
Traders can calculate the current day’ s relevant pivot points
using these calculations, based upon the previous day ’s price data,
and then plot the levels using horizontal lines on a currency price
chart. Exhibit 5.11 illustrates the calculated levels plotted on a chart.
Once these levels are calculated and plotted, they are used in much
the same way as Fibonacci retracements. Breakouts or bounces
may be traded, and they are often also used as profi t targets. Traders
also use pivot points as reference levels to provide guidance as to
whether the current price is relatively low or relatively high within
its expected range for the day. If price is near the day’ s S2, for exam-
ple, traders may look for long trading opportunities with the view
165
cc0055..iinndddd 116655 11//1133//0099 1100::0055::0011 AAMM

Foreign Exchange Trading Methods and Strategies
that price should reasonably move towards equilibrium around the
main PP level.
Both Fibonacci retracements and pivot points are excellent tech-
nical tools that often encompass entire trading disciplines in them-
selves. Mostly based on breakouts or bounces (whether the bounce is
up off support or down off resistance), these strategic trading meth-
odologies can also lend very valuable confi rmation to other currency
trading strategies. Both known for their large following of adherents,
Fibonacci retracements and pivot points are frequently effective for
just that reason — traders actually trade off of these levels. This fact
alone makes these tools a valuable component of any trader ’s techni-
cal trading arsenal.
E
lliott Wave Trading — Two Steps Forward,
One Step Back
Related to Fibonacci Theory, Elliott Wave Theory also claims an
enormous following of practitioners. As briefl y discussed in Chapter 3 ,
Elliott Wave is named after Ralph Nelson Elliott, who asserted that
price movement is predictable and can be classifi ed into a series of
identifi able waves. The basic structure is fi ve waves comprising the
trend movement and three waves comprising the corrective (or
counter trend) movement. Furthermore, within each of these waves
is a smaller sub - wave structure that also adheres to the 5/3 pattern,
depending upon whether the wave is with the larger trend or against
it. So the basic 5/3 wave pattern remains intact on every magni-
tude, from the longest - term to the shortest- term, and each wave
166
cc0055..iinndddd 116666 11//1133//0099 1100::0055::0033 AAMM

Elliott Wave Trading
EXHIBIT 5.12
Comprehensive Elliott Wave Structure
Elliott Wave Structure
(5)
(B)
(3)
(A)
(1)
5 (4) (C)
B
3
A
1 4 C
(2)
2
pattern exists within the context of a larger wave pattern while also
encompassing many smaller wave patterns. Perhaps the best way to
understand this principle is through a visual representation. Exhibit
5.12 provides an illustration of a comprehensive Elliott Wave structure.
There are three primary guidelines of a trend pattern in Elliott
Wave, according to its founder. Within the context of the 5 - wave
trend cycle, as shown in Exhibit 5.12 , Wave 2 never moves beyond
the beginning of Wave 1, Wave 3 is never the shortest of the fi ve
waves, and Wave 4 never enters the price span of Wave 1. Beyond
these strictly observed principles, there are numerous nuances sur-
rounding Elliott Wave theory that are well beyond the scope of
this book. An explanation of how practitioners view the real - world
implications of each wave, though, should help illustrate how Elliott
Wave traders approach the foreign exchange markets.
167
cc0055..iinndddd 116677 11//1133//0099 1100::0055::0033 AAMM

Foreign Exchange Trading Methods and Strategies
IN THE REAL WORLD
Elliott Wave Trading
In practice, trading according to Elliott Wave principles is prima-
rily about identifying market turns, whether those turns are merely
minor retracements within a dominant trend or if they are major mar-
ket reversals. Within a typical 5 - wave dominant trend pattern, each
wave represents a certain market psychology. The same is true of
each wave within the 3 - wave corrective pattern. Following is a descrip-
tion of each wave ’s signifi cance within the more readily identifi able 5 -
wave trend. This particular description will depict a dominant UPtrend.
The same principles apply, but in reverse, for dominant DOWNtrends.
Wave 1: Within the context of a brand new uptrend, the currency
pair in question is still considered by the majority of market par-
ticipants and analysts to be entrenched in the previously pre-
vailing downtrend. Therefore, at the time that the trend reversal
occurs, it can often be extremely diffi cult to identify the fact that
a new trend is indeed beginning. At this point, buying activity
is only a trickle, as contrarian traders begin accumulating inex-
pensively at or near the lows. This initial move within the new
uptrend later turns out to be a signifi cant push that becomes
progressively more obvious as the fi rst wave ends.
Wave 2: After the initial push in the new direction, this second
wave constitutes, among other actions, profi t - taking by those
who participated in the fi rst wave. This correction should not,
however, reach past the beginning of the fi rst wave. Not only
does this second wave represent profi t- taking, but this correc-
tive move is also partly caused by the many traders who are
acting on their belief that the market is still embedded within
the previous downtrend.
Wave 3: This wave usually constitutes the strongest and largest
move within the 5- wave pattern. At the very least, it should
never be the shortest. Throughout this wave, traders, analysts,
168
cc0055..iinndddd 116688 11//1133//0099 1100::0055::0033 AAMM

Elliott Wave Trading
IN THE REAL WORLD (CONTINUED)
and the media become progressively more bullish and com-
mitted to the new trend in the currency pair. By the end of this
third wave, a buying frenzy among the masses may have devel-
oped, generally pushing the pair to new heights in a swift and
steep manner. This wave should extend well past the end of
the fi rst wave.
Wave 4: Representing a corrective pullback move before the fi nal
push, this wave is generally not as strong as the other waves,
and often tends to move in a sideways, consolidative fashion.
Many Elliott Wave practitioners consider the end of this wave as
an ideal place to enter a position on a pullback (or “ dip ” ). This
trade setup would be a long trade, in the direction of both the
fi nal wave and the dominant trend. One primary rule is that this
wave should never enter the price region of the fi rst wave.
Wave 5: This is the fi nal push in the direction of the main
trend. At this point, bullish sentiment on the currency pair
is approaching a peak. Analysts, traders, and the media are
generally extremely positive, fueling even more buying activity.
During the middle of this wave, novice traders get carried away
with all of this bullishness and begin joining the buying crowd
at this late stage, if they have not done so already. During
this last wave, only contrarians quietly begin to take profi ts
on their long positions and start to short- sell. This process
gains momentum to culminate in a peak high, and ultimately
the beginnings of a corrective 3 - wave pattern.
Elliott Wave trading is one of the more diffi cult strategies to
master, as it requires a great deal of practice and experience in order
to be able to identify waves effectively under different market con-
ditions. As many professional Elliott Wave traders will agree, how-
ever, learning to trade these waves can potentially be very rewarding.
169
cc0055..iinndddd 116699 11//1133//0099 1100::0055::0044 AAMM

Foreign Exchange Trading Methods and Strategies
D
ivergence Trading — Separate Paths
Also an effective analytical tool if used in the correct manner, price -
oscillator divergences have long been acknowledged by technical
traders and analysts as a solid indicator of potential impending price
reversals. Of course, by no means should it be inferred in any way that
divergences will always predict a reversal, or even that they are correct
a majority of the time. But well - defi ned price- oscillator divergences,
especially on longer - term charts, can be surprisingly accurate in many
instances. Furthermore, catching a major price reversal at the correct
time can be so potentially profi table that only a few accurate diver-
gences are needed to offset the inevitable false signals.
Price - oscillator divergence can be spotted with just two elements
on a price chart. T he fi rst element is price, while the second element is
an oscillator that runs either above or below price. This second element
could be Stochastics, RSI, MACD or any similar oscillator as described
in Chapter 3 . A divergence occurs when there is an imbalance between
the price element and the oscillator element. T hey begin to go sepa-
rate ways and start telling opposite stories. T his is when the oscillator is
providing a strong hint that price may be losing its current momentum,
and a change in price direction may therefore be impending.
So, for example, bearish divergence (which hints at an impend-
ing reversal back down) occurs when price hits a higher high while
the oscillator hits a corresponding lower high. Exhibit 5.13 displays
a typical instance of bearish divergence.
The indication after a clear bearish divergence signal is that
price may soon turn and go back down as the higher high in price
loses its upward momentum and begins falling.
170
cc0055..iinndddd 117700 11//1133//0099 1100::0055::0044 AAMM

Divergence Trading—Separate Paths
EXHIBIT 5.13
Bearish Divergence
Source: FX Solutions – FX AccuCharts
Bullish divergence (which hints at an impending reversal back
up) occurs when price hits a lower low while the oscillator hits a
corresponding higher low. Exhibit 5.14 displays a typical instance of
bullish divergence.
The indication after a clear bullish divergence signal is that price
may soon turn and go back up as the lower low in price loses its
downward momentum and begins rising.
Divergences are often used as hints, or early indications, of pos-
sible turns and reversals. Much less often are they employed exclu-
sively as a full - fl edged, self - suffi cient trading strategy. But used in
171
cc0055..iinndddd 117711 11//1133//0099 1100::0055::0044 AAMM

Foreign Exchange Trading Methods and Strategies
EXHIBIT 5.14
Bullish Divergence
Source: FX Solutions – FX AccuCharts
conjunction with other trading tools, divergences can often be a
remarkably effective method for helping to time major market turns.
M
ultiple Timeframe Trading — Timing Is
Everything
A trading method used very extensively by many foreign exchange
traders involves the use of multiple timeframes. To trade in this
manner, a trader might fi rst look at a long - term timeframe like a
monthly or weekly chart to determine the overall direction of the
trend, if any. If a decisive long - term trend is in place, the trader
should only trade in this direction.
172
cc0055..iinndddd 117722 11//1133//0099 1100::0055::0055 AAMM

Multiple Timeframe Trading—Timing Is Everything
Then, the trader may drill down to a shorter timeframe like the
daily or 4- hour chart to look for dips, or pullbacks, in the trend.
As mentioned in the section on trend trading, these are counter-
trend moves that provide an advantageous location to enter in the
direction of the trend. For example, in a strong long - term uptrend,
a minor downward retracement would represent a potential high
probability entry to get in on the trend at a good price.
Finally, the trader may drill down even further to an even shorter
timeframe like the 30 - minute or 15 - minute chart to pinpoint and time
exact entries. For example, if a retracement in an uptrend is identifi ed
on the 4- hour chart, the trader could go down to the 15 - minute chart
to wait for a resistance breakout in the direction of the trend before
fi nally entering into a long position.
What makes multiple timeframe trading so powerful is that it puts
traders on the right side of the market while also pinpointing the high-
est probability entries available. Perhaps the best manifestation of mul-
tiple timeframe trading can be found in Dr. Alexander Elder’ s Triple
Screen, as described in the following T ips & T echniques section.
TIPS AND TECHNIQUES
The Triple Screen
Dr. Alexander Elder, a psychiatrist by trade and an expert in techni-
cal analysis, is one of the world’ s foremost authorities on trading.
Among other prominent books, Elder wrote the international best-
selling classic, T rading for a Living, and the comprehensive trading
tome, Come Into My Trading Room: A Complete Guide to Trading .
173
cc0055..iinndddd 117733 11//1133//0099 1100::0055::0055 AAMM

Foreign Exchange Trading Methods and Strategies
TIPS AND TECHNIQUES (CONTINUED)
In both of these classics, he writes about one of his most
well - known trading strategies based upon the multiple timeframe
approach. It is called the “ Triple Screen. ”
In Come Into My Trading Room: A Complete Guide to Trading
(John Wiley & Sons, 2002), Elder writes,
“ Triple Screen resolves contradictions between indica-
tors and timeframes. It reaches strategic decisions on
long - term charts, using trend- following indicators— this is
the fi rst screen. It proceeds to make tactical decisions
about entries and exits on the intermediate charts, using
oscillators — this is the second screen. It offers several
methods for placing buy and sell orders— this is the third
screen, which we may implement using either intermedi-
ate - or short - term charts. ”
“ Begin by choosing your favorite timeframe, the one
with whose charts you like to work, and call it intermedi-
ate. Multiply its length by fi ve to fi nd your long - term time-
frame. Apply trend - following indicators to long- term charts
to reach a strategic decision to go long, short, or stand
aside. Standing aside is a legitimate position. If the long-
term chart is bullish or bearish, return to the intermedi-
ate charts and use oscillators to look for entry and exit
points in the direction of the long- term trend. Set stops
and profi t targets before switching to short- term charts, if
available, to fi ne - tune entries and exits. ”
Elder ’s Triple Screen is a simple but ingenious multiple
timeframe approach to forex trading. To trade this technique,
the trader would begin with a favorite timeframe, like a 4 - hour
chart, and call it intermediate. To get the long- term chart, the
intermediate chart would be multiplied by fi ve (a factor of 4–6
times may actually be more fl exible and practical). Therefore, the
174
cc0055..iinndddd 117744 11//1133//0099 1100::0055::0055 AAMM

Points & Figure Trading—Pointing Out Breakouts
TIPS AND TECHNIQUES (CONTINUED)
long - term chart might be the daily chart (4- hour chart (cid:4) 6 = 24–
hour chart). To get the short- term chart, the intermediate chart
would be divided by 4-6. Therefore, the short- term chart in this
case might be a 1 - hour chart (4 - hour chart ÷ 4 = 1 -h our chart).
On the long - term chart, the fi rst screen, one would focus on
trend - following indicators like moving averages, MACD, or trendlines
to decide whether to go long, sell short, or stay out of trading alto-
gether due to a lack of trend. On the intermediate chart, the sec-
ond screen, one would use oscillators like Stochastics or RSI to
identify a likely pullback entry zone. Finally, on the short- term chart,
the third screen, one would look for a support/r esistance breakout
in the direction of the long - term trend to pinpoint the trade entry.
P
oint & Figure Trading — Pointing Out
Breakouts
Though visually distinct from all the other chart- trading strategies
discussed thus far, point & fi gure (p & f ) trading is, in many ways,
very similar to traditional support and resistance breakout trading on
bar or candlestick charts. The primary difference lies in the look and
functionality of the price charts themselves. Many forex charting
platforms include an option to view charts using the p& f structure.
As described in Chapter 3 , p& f charts actually represent price in a
radically different manner from the more familiar bar and candle-
stick charts. Exhibit 5.15 , which displays a typical forex p & f chart,
shows just how differently they can look.
Point & fi gure trading is trading that is based exclusively upon
price action, which makes it ideally suited to the foreign exchange
market. Originating in the 19 th century, this type of fi nancial
175
cc0055..iinndddd 117755 11//1133//0099 1100::0055::0055 AAMM

Foreign Exchange Trading Methods and Strategies
EXHIBIT 5.15
Point & Figure Chart
Source: FX Solutions – FX AccuCharts
charting is older than some of the more popular charting meth-
ods in common use today. P & f charts are a pure price action play
because these charts generally exclude all other elements (like time,
volume, and opens/closes) other than price. Therefore, a p & f practi-
tioner can focus all attention on the behavior of price action, which
is the most important factor from a technical analysis perspective.
Without extraneous elements to clutter the landscape, p & f charts
excel at representing clear evidence of such important technical
characteristics as trend, support/resistance, and breakouts.
As shown in Exhibit 5 .15 , p& f charts are constructed with columns
of boxes alternately labeled with Xs and Os. An X column means that
176
cc0055..iinndddd 117766 11//1133//0099 1100::0055::0066 AAMM

Points & Figure Trading—Pointing Out Breakouts
price has risen in that column. Conversely, an O column means
that price has declined in that column. When a reversal occurs on any
column, a new column is created going in the opposite direction. As
mentioned earlier, there is no time, volume, opens, or closes on p & f
charts. Only when price moves a suffi cient amount, regardless of time,
will an existing column grow or a new column be started.
Two extremely important variables can alter the way p & f
charts look and act. The fi rst variable is box size. This is the mini-
mum amount that price needs to move before a new box within an
existing column is created. For example, if a column of Xs (which
denotes a rising trend) has 10 boxes in the column, price would
need to move an additional amount equal to the preset box size
before another X would be added onto the top of the column. For
example, if a trader sets the box size on the p & f charting software
to 10 pips per box, which is a common setting, price would need to
move 10 pips above each X box in order to add another X box on
top. In the same way, price would need to move 10 pips lower than
each box in an O column in order to add another O box on the
bottom of the column.
The second important variable is reversal amount. This is the
amount of pips that price needs to reverse before a new column is
created. A new column is only started when a reversal in an existing
column exceeds the reversal threshold. The most common setting for
the reversal amount is three boxes, or three “ points.” If the box size
is set at 10 pips and the reversal amount is set at three boxes, the
reversal amount in pips is 30 pips. So in a rising column of X boxes,
for example, price would need to turn back down against the
uptrend by at least 30 pips before a new O column would be started.
177
cc0055..iinndddd 117777 11//1133//0099 1100::0055::0066 AAMM

Foreign Exchange Trading Methods and Strategies
The signifi cance of these two variables should be fully recog-
nized and appreciated, as they are what make p & f charts so effec-
tive at representing only the most important major market moves,
disregarding all of the minor fl uctuations known as “ noise. ” For
this reason, p & f charts are excellent indicators of both trend and
support/resistance.
Because p& f charts outline support and resistance so well, one of
the primary trading strategies in most common use with these charts
is breakout trading. One notable distinction between bar charting
and p & f charting, within the realm of support/resistance, lies in the
interpretation of double and triple tops and bottoms. In the world
of bar and candlestick charting, a double top is a potentially bearish
reversal signal. In p & f terminology, however, a double top is a resist-
ance point where traders should be looking for a bullish break to
the upside. The same distinction holds true for double bottoms, as
well as triple tops and bottoms.
P & f charts also have their own version of diagonal trendlines,
which are drawn at strict 45 degree angles. Chart patterns like tri-
angles are very prevalent as well. Like the horizontal support and
resistance levels on these charts, the main method for trading trend-
lines and patterns on p & f charts is through breakouts.
Because point & fi gure trading focuses exclusively on price
action, the most important aspect of technical trading, p& f prac-
titioners are able to view and interpret market movement with
exceptional clarity. Perhaps for this reason, p & f charts have with-
stood the test of hundreds of years to fulfi ll one of its current roles
today as an increasingly relevant analytical tool for foreign exchange
traders.
178
cc0055..iinndddd 117788 11//1133//0099 1100::0055::0066 AAMM

Carry Trading—In the Interest of Interest
C
arry Trading — In the Interest of Interest
As discussed in Chapter 4 on fundamental analysis, carry trading
involves the simultaneous purchase of a high - interest currency and
sale of a low- interest currency. T his creates an interest rate differen-
tial yield that the trader can earn on a daily basis.
The carry trade is primarily a longer- term fundamental invest-
ment strategy that seeks to earn this interest rate differential while
assuming the substantial risks of exchange rate volatility. A strategy
that combines the carry trade with technical analysis to help miti-
gate this risk will be described in this section’ s Tips & Techniques.
The fundamental concept behind the carry trade is that when
investors ’ risk aversion is not exceedingly high, international capital
tends to fl ow towards higher - yielding currencies, thereby contribut-
ing to a general exchange rate appreciation in these currencies at the
expense of the lower- yielding currencies. Of course, this is far from
a rule, but only a tendency that occurs when the overall market sen-
timent is towards a greater risk appetite (as opposed to greater risk
aversion).
It should be stressed here that interest rate differentials go
both ways, and that if a trade carries a negative interest rate dif-
ferential, the daily charges to the trader’ s account on open posi-
tions can become prohibitively expensive in many instances. This
is because the interest rate differential, whether the trader is paid
or charged the amount, is based on the full leveraged size of the
trade as opposed to just the fractional amount that the trader puts
up in margin for the trade. So, for example, if $ 1,000 is required
to open a full $ 100,000 position at 100:1 leverage, any interest rate
179
cc0055..iinndddd 117799 11//1133//0099 1100::0055::0066 AAMM

Foreign Exchange Trading Methods and Strategies
differential on the trade would be paid or charged as a percentage
of the full $ 100,000 amount instead of just the $ 1,000 amount. This
can add up to a substantial sum if a trade is kept open over a pro-
longed period of time.
At the time of this writing, a commonly carry- traded currency
pair is the NZD/JPY, which presently carries a large interest rate
differential. The New Zealand dollar currently has a high interest
rate while the Japanese yen has a low interest rate. Carry traders
who are long NZD/JPY, which means they have borrowed JPY to
buy NZD, would be paid based on the high interest rate differen-
tial. Conversely, non - carry traders who are short NZD/JPY, which
means they have borrowed NZD to buy JPY, would be charged
based upon the high interest rate differential.
With most retail foreign exchange brokers, this payment or
charge is settled at “ rollover,” which generally occurs at the end of
each business day. This time can vary among brokers. During roll-
over, open positions that carry a positive interest rate differential are
credited directly into the traders ’ trading accounts. Conversely, those
positions that carry a negative interest rate differential are debited
directly from the traders ’ trading accounts.
Carry trading allows foreign exchange traders to receive sub-
stantial interest payments on a daily basis for holding high - interest
positions open. Of course, the risk of adverse price moves can
potentially erase all of those daily interest gains, and then some.
But with the help of a high probability carry trading strategy (as
described next) and solid risk controls, trading exclusively in the
direction of positive interest yield is one of the most prudent and
sensible ways to trade long - term positions in forex.
180
cc0055..iinndddd 118800 11//1133//0099 1100::0055::0077 AAMM

Carry Trading—In the Interest of Interest
TIPS AND TECHNIQUES
The Technical Carry Trade
A variation on traditional buy- and - hold carry trading incorporates
the intelligent use of technical analysis. This method is aptly
named, Technical Carry Trading. What sets this approach apart
from traditional carry trading is its strict trade entry criteria that
screens out low- probability carry trades where price has already
over - extended itself. Technical carry trading is a simple strategy
for optimizing trade entries/exits that decreases exchange rate
risk and maximizes potential exchange rate profi t, while also tak-
ing advantage of daily interest payments based upon the tradi-
tional carry trade model.
The principle behind technical carry trading is that the high-
est probability strategic entries into long - term carry trade posi-
tions are near long- term support/resistance levels. Therefore, if
a substantial positive interest rate differential can be achieved
by buying (going long) a currency pair (as in the example of NZD/
JPY), the highest probability entry would be near long - term sup-
port. When price on the pair is near long- term support, the histori-
cal probability is that price should eventually rise. On the fl ip side,
if the positive interest differential can be attained by selling short
a currency pair, the highest probability entry would be near long -
term resistance.
The fi rst step in technical carry trading is to identify those
currency pairs that have a high enough interest rate differential
to warrant holding a long- term carry position. The threshold might
be set at around 300 basis points (or 3 percentage points) or
more. Perhaps more importantly, however, the likely future direc-
tion of the rate differential should be examined, as this will
affect the exchange rate outlook of the currency pair enormously.
The future direction of interest rates can be analyzed through cen-
tral bank statements, economic conditions, the infl ation outlook,
181
cc0055..iinndddd 118811 11//1133//0099 1100::0055::0077 AAMM

Foreign Exchange Trading Methods and Strategies
TIPS AND TECHNIQUES (CONTINUED)
and other fundamental analyses of the countries/regions in
question.
After screening currency pairs according to the current and
potential future interest rate differentials, the second step in the
technical carry trade process is technical selection. Of the cur-
rency pairs chosen in the fi rst step, the trader might choose to
trade only those pairs whose current price is in the bottom one-
third of their long - term vertical range (near support). Or, if a pair is
entrenched in a long- term uptrend channel, the trader may choose
only to enter long when price is near the bottom of the channel
(again, near support). The primary principle here is to trade only
when price is in a high - probability location, like near support when
going long or near resistance when selling short.
The last step in the technical carry trade process is trade
execution. In order to spread risk and avoid the need to pin-
point entries, technical carry trading may employ a scaled- e ntry
approach. This involves entering into a long - term carry trade using
multiple fractional entries. These smaller positions would be
spaced evenly within a support/resistance trading zone (as in the
bottom one- t hird of a long- t erm range) in order to distribute risk
across a wide price region. Exits in the form of profi t limits and
stop losses would be technically based. If a long carry trade is
entered near support, the profi t target could be placed near resist-
ance (e.g., the top one- third of the long- term range). Stop losses
on a long carry trade could be placed somewhere right below long -
term support, much like with other types of technical trades.
Technical carry trading is all about increasing the chances of
a profi table trade while simultaneously earning substantial lever-
aged interest. Since good trading, in general, involves maximiz-
ing probabilities under precarious circumstances, the technical
carry trade strategy performs its function well. At the very least,
it improves the outlook of the traditional carry trade dramatically.
182
cc0055..iinndddd 118822 11//1133//0099 1100::0055::0077 AAMM

News Trading—All the News That's Fit to Profit From
N
ews Trading — All the News That’ s Fit to
Profit From
Like carry trading, news trading also falls under the general cate-
gory of fundamental analysis. News trading is simply the attempt to
exploit immediate market reactions to major news and economic
data announcements.
Many forex news traders will wait patiently before each major
news announcement (as described in Chapter 4 ) , ready to pounce
on a trade if the opportunity presents itself. These traders often will
have already memorized the consensus (expected) numbers, and
would then just wait to see if the actual numbers announced on their
up - to - the -s econd news feed differ considerably from the consen-
sus. If so, the direction of the trade according to the deviation from
consensus is determined, and the trade is taken. If all works well on
a trade like this, the trader will have jumped on a strong price run
either early on or somewhere in the middle of the movement.
Some news traders employ a variation of this method by just
watching and waiting during the initial price reaction to the news,
which they deem to be unreliable, and then entering the trade on the
secondary reaction. This secondary reaction could either be a complete
reversal of the initial reaction, or it could be a continuation of the ini-
tial move after a pullback or consolidation. This approach is perhaps
easier and less frenzied than the fi rst type of news trading, as success in
this case does not necessarily depend entirely upon the speed of entry.
Yet other news traders will wait for the news to come out, and
then trade technically in the attempts to capture quick profi ts. Technical
trading in this manner necessitates the analysis of very-short- term
183
cc0055..iinndddd 118833 11//1133//0099 1100::0055::0077 AAMM

Foreign Exchange Trading Methods and Strategies
price charts, pinpointing precise support/resistance levels and momen-
tum signals. This type of ultra- short - term technical analysis presents its
own set of issues and diffi culties. But when done correctly, it can cer-
tainly lend considerably to the news trading process.
Generally, news trading is one of the most challenging and dif-
fi cult approaches to forex. But if a trader has all of the necessary
tools and sensibilities to tackle this type of trading, there are cer-
tainly potential profi ts to be made from the news.
C
ontrarian Trading — The Majority
Doesn ’t Rule
Unlike most of the other methods and strategies discussed in this
chapter, contrarian trading is more of a philosophy than a specifi c
method or strategy. The root of this philosophy lies in the assumption
that the general consensus is wrong, and that the astute trader can
profi tably exploit this by taking the opposite side of the consensus.
Putting this into practice can take several forms. One way to be a
contrarian is to pay close attention to what mass media headlines are
saying —a nd then planning trades in the opposite direction. For exam-
ple, after a prolonged drop in the U.S. dollar ’s exchange rate, once
the mass media begin to foretell a doomsday scenario for the dollar,
contrarians may begin looking into either buying the dollar or cover-
ing their shorts. Conversely, when mass media portray a rosy picture
of the U.S. dollar after a prolonged exchange rate appreciation, a con-
trarian may soon wish either to go short or close out existing longs.
The simple logic behind this philosophy is the belief that the
news media, in refl ecting and infl uencing general public sentiment,
184
cc0055..iinndddd 118844 11//1133//0099 1100::0055::0088 AAMM

Contrarian Trading—The Majority Dosen't Rule
are usually either wrong, extremely late, or both. The contrarian
assumption is that by the time the mass media have begun to high-
light market extremes, there is usually not a great deal more uncom-
mitted capital available to move price much further in the same
direction. In other words, if almost everyone has already bought into
the euro, and then the media begin saying that the euro should keep
going up, who else is left to continue pushing price action much
further from there? The amount of new capital that is available to be
injected into the currency diminishes dramatically once the major
traders have already staked out their positions in the market.
This form of contrarian thinking also comprises the primary idea
behind one method of applying the Commodity Futures Trading
Commission’ s (CFTC) Commitments of Traders (COT) Report.
Among other valuable pieces of information, this weekly document
issued by the CFTC displays slightly delayed reporting on the net
positioning of major market players in the currency futures markets.
By revealing the net futures positioning of these major players, this
COT document can be used by contrarians to trade against extreme
relative positioning in the spot forex market.
For example, if the COT report shows that major speculators have
been drastically and increasingly net long in the British pound against
the U.S. dollar in the past several months, and the current data has just
hit the recent peak high in the magnitude of these net long positions,
traders may begin looking for the next opportunity to short the pound
in a classic contrarian maneuver. Again, the logic here is that if all the
large players have already bought the British pound throughout a long
and swift price run- up, who else is left to keep pushing price up even
further? Therefore, the contrarian indication in this hypothetical COT
185
cc0055..iinndddd 118855 11//1133//0099 1100::0055::0088 AAMM

Foreign Exchange Trading Methods and Strategies
EXHIBIT 5.16
COT Report
Source: U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) at www.cftc.gov .
example is of a potentially bearish impending price move for the
pound. Exhibit 5 .16 displays a COT report sample from the CFTC.
The current report can be found at the following direct link: www
.cftc.gov/dea/futures/deacmesf.htm.
Specifi c methods for using the COT report to trade forex are
beyond the scope of this book, but all forex traders should at least
be aware that such a report exists and can be of great use in forming
contrarian trade opinions.
Another form of contrarianism occurs in technical trading, espe-
cially in the context of breakouts. Because many false breakouts
occur on foreign exchange charts, astute contrarian traders have
186
cc0055..iinndddd 118866 11//1133//0099 1100::0055::0088 AAMM

Backtesting—History Repeats Itself
learned to “ fade the break, ” or trade in the opposite direction of the
breakout. This strategy was discussed earlier in this chapter in the sec-
tion on breakout trading. It can be an extremely risky way to trade,
as it goes directly against the trend and momentum of the market.
But if proper risk controls are put into place, it can also be a very
effective way to capitalize on the many false and premature breaks of
support and resistance.
Generally, contrarian traders will trade against anything that rep-
resents popular opinion. When all of the analysts and media are saying
one thing, it is almost certain that the contrarians are doing the oppo-
site. The primary goal of any contrarian trader is to buy the market at
a bottom or short the market at a top. These traders relish the thought
of competing with less experienced traders who are prone to partake
in frenzied buying near peaks and frantic selling near troughs.
Although many traders will agree that contrarian trading often
makes a lot of sense, to actually become a practicing contrarian takes
an iron will, nerves of steel, and great risk management skills. While
contrarian traders are frequently correct in their assumptions, trading
against the trend and against the masses can often be an endeavor
fraught with potentially disastrous pitfalls. It is certainly not a rec-
ommended approach for beginners. But even for experienced con-
trarian traders, much caution must be taken to ensure that one does
not inadvertently step into the path of a speeding train.
B
acktesting — History Repeats Itself
For any technical trading strategy that has concrete and specifi c
trade entry/exit rules, backtesting that strategy allows the trader to
187
cc0055..iinndddd 118877 11//1133//0099 1100::0055::0088 AAMM

Foreign Exchange Trading Methods and Strategies
simulate its expected performance using historical price data. With
backtesting, traders can actually test how well their strategies would
have done if executed in the past.
Many technical trading strategies possess the qualities to be back-
tested effectively. Most importantly, they must not have any ambiguity
in their rules. One example of a simple strategy that may easily be
backtested is as follows: Go long when the 5 - period moving average
has crossed above the 20- period moving average AND the MACD
Histogram has crossed above the zero line AND DMI+ is above
DMI (cid:3) . Sell short when the 5- period moving average has crossed
below the 20 - period moving average AND the MACD Histogram has
crossed below the zero line AND DMI (cid:3) is above DMI(cid:2). Although
this simple example has not been tested by this author, it illustrates the
characteristics of a strategy that is conducive to backtesting.
Although a backtest may appear to be the perfect method for
identifying the most profi table trading strategies, one major caveat
should be mentioned here. Using past price data to simulate future
results often misleads traders into believing that their backtested
performance will always translate into similar results in actual, real -
time trading. Many potential factors can and will make hypotheti-
cal performance and actual performance differ signifi cantly. Among
these factors is the fact that markets change considerably over time.
A strategy that may have worked one way for the past fi ve years
may work in an entirely different way for the next fi ve years as the
market changes and evolves. Often, for example, technical indica-
tors that gave profi table signals in the past are subsequently unable
to replicate their performance going forward. This phenomenon can
be extremely frustrating, but it is an integral aspect of what makes
188
cc0055..iinndddd 118888 11//1133//0099 1100::0055::0099 AAMM

Backtesting—History Repeats Itself
trading such a challenging endeavor. Additionally, in terms of trade
execution, trading a strategy in real- t ime may be much different from
the way the strategy is backtested. These differences can potentially
skew the results in a signifi cant manner.
Given that past and hypothetical performance may not always
be indicative of future results, however, backtesting is still the best
available method for evaluating a strategy without actually trading
it in a real- time environment. Backtesting a strategy provides enor-
mous benefi ts to the trader, most important of which is a reasonable
expectation of that strategy ’s potential worth and usefulness.
There are two primary methods of backtesting a trading strat-
egy. The fi rst, and most popular, method is automated backtesting.
This requires software that has this capability. A simple Internet
search will produce many links to this type of software. Automated
backtesting entails using a specialized program into which a trader
inputs the specifi c rules and criteria of the strategy. The software
then automatically applies those rules to past price data and tallies
the hypothetical profi ts, losses, and other pertinent information. An
entire picture of past performance is created in this way.
A less- practiced method of backtesting is performed manually
and visually by the trader. Armed with concrete strategy rules, the
trader would scroll back in time on a chart and manually apply
the strategy as if it was in a real - time environment. Performance data
would then be recorded manually by the trader. Ideally in this type
of backtesting, the trader would advance the chart bar- by- bar in
order to refrain from seeing price action subsequent to the trade at
hand. T his eliminates trading in hindsight, which can be detrimental
to an objective backtest.
189
cc0055..iinndddd 118899 11//1133//0099 1100::0055::0099 AAMM

Foreign Exchange Trading Methods and Strategies
One of the major disadvantages of manual backtesting, when
compared with automated backtesting, is the signifi cant potential
for human error in executing simulated trades and recording per-
formance results. Furthermore, it takes a great deal of work and
discipline to simulate trades manually over a large data set without
straying from the strict rules of the strategy. Finally, the normal range
of human emotions and biases that often interfere with actual trad-
ing can also be a detrimental factor in achieving objective backtest
results. That being said, however, manual backtesting can provide the
trader with a real “ feel ” for actually trading a given strategy. This
provides valuable trading experience, albeit simulated, that no auto-
mated backtest could possibly provide.
Whether performed manually or automatically, backtesting can
be one of the most important elements of fi nding and/or building
a solid trading strategy. This vital practice can save traders a great
deal of time and money that might otherwise be wasted on trading
unprofi table strategies.
A
utotrading — Robots for Hire
Closely tied to backtesting is the concept of autotrading. As men-
tioned in the previous section, automated backtesting utilizes a
software trading platform to place hypothetical trades when prede-
termined trading signals appear on historical price data. The purpose
of this is to test the potential viability and profi tability of a trading
strategy. Autotrading goes a step further by actually executing real
trades on current, real- time market prices. When a predetermined
signal emerges, the software actually places a trade automatically.
190
cc0055..iinndddd 119900 11//1133//0099 1100::0055::0099 AAMM

Autotrading—Robots for Hire
This is usually initiated only when all proper backtesting has indi-
cated the likely success of the trading system.
Autotrading is common in foreign exchange trading. Many
hedge funds and other entities that manage money via forex trading
use some form of autotrading in their daily activities. In addition,
many private, individual traders have also begun to adopt autotrad-
ing to execute their thoroughly backtested and highly o ptimized
forex trading strategies.
For these traders, autotrading is accomplished using an Application
Programming Interface (API), which connects the trader ’s system to
the dealer ’s trade execution structure. APIs require programming skills
on the part of either the trader or a programmer hired by the trader.
But once all of the trading rules and criteria are determined by the
trader, programming an API can be relatively straightforward for any-
one with programming experience.
After the specifi c trading rules and criteria are determined,
the strategy is backtested with positive results, and the API is pro-
grammed, autotrading is almost as simple as fl ipping a switch to
begin the trading process. When this occurs, not only are trades
entered when predetermined technical criteria are met, but trade
exits in the form of stop losses and profi t limits can also be pro-
grammed into the API. This creates an entire self - contained system
for trading foreign exchange.
As with backtesting, any nondiscretionary technical trading strat-
egy that has clear- cut, unambiguous rules is a good candidate for
autotrading. In fact, if a trader has optimized and perfected this type
of a black - and - white trading strategy that runs devoid of human
judgment, autotrading is perhaps the best way to execute it, as it
191
cc0055..iinndddd 119911 11//1133//0099 1100::0055::1100 AAMM

Foreign Exchange Trading Methods and Strategies
effectively eliminates all human biases, errors, and emotions in the
trading process.
C
hapter Summary
Three general approaches to forex, including position trading, swing
trading, and day trading, outline the primary styles that have been
adopted by many forex traders in the market today. Position trad-
ing attempts to capitalize on longer- term trends, and can employ
both fundamental and technical analysis to determine directional
bias. Swing trading is generally a purely technical style that looks to
exploit short- to medium- term swings, or turns, in the market. Day
trading is the shortest- term approach that seeks to get in and out of
position within a given trading day using extremely short charting
timeframes and well - defi ned technical signals.
Besides these general approaches to trading foreign exchange,
there are other delineations of trading methodology. On the techni-
cal trading side, these include trend trading, range trading, breakout
trading, and pattern trading. Trend trading, or trend following, utilizes
primarily technical analysis to identify the overall trend, and then to
determine the best place to enter that trend. In the absence of a trend,
traders will often go into range trading mode, where lows are bought
and highs are sold during sideways trading ranges. When a range or
support/resistance level is broken to the upside or to the downside,
breakout trading takes precedence. Traders will then buy on a break
above or sell on a break below. One type of breakout trading occurs
when chart patterns are broken. Common examples of traded patterns
include head - and - shoulders, triangles, wedges, fl ags, and pennants.
192
cc0055..iinndddd 119922 11//1133//0099 1100::0055::1111 AAMM

Chapter Summary
Yet other common methods for trading forex include strategies
that utilize the powerful analytical tools of Fibonacci, pivot points,
and Elliott Wave. Each of these tools commands its own loyal fol-
lowing among traders, and each has its own unique approach to
forecasting price movement.
Divergence trading seeks to identify instances when price and
an oscillator are diverging in direction. This often means a potential
loss of momentum in the prevailing price direction and therefore a
possible impending reversal. Divergence signals are often reliable in
helping to forecast or confi rm these potential market turns.
Multiple timeframe trading is an excellent all - encompassing meth-
odology for entering into high-probability currency trades. Starting
on the longest timeframes to identify trend, multiple timeframe trad-
ers then drill down to progressively shorter timeframes in order to
determine, and ultimately pinpoint, the most advantageous trade entry
points.
Point & fi gure trading utilizes an entirely different type of chart
from the commonly used bar or candlestick charts. Point & fi gure
charts are fi lled with Xs and Os, and they excel at identifying trends,
support/resistance, and breakouts, while minimizing the representa-
tion of market noise.
On the fundamental analysis side, carry trading, news trading, and
contrarian trading are some of the primary strategies and methods.
Carry trading works on the interest rate differential inherent in cur-
rency pairs, and seeks to earn a positive yield on both this differential
and directional exchange rate movement. News trading exploits price
spikes and other types of fast price action that occur around economic
data releases and fundamental news announcements. Contrarian
193
cc0055..iinndddd 119933 11//1133//0099 1100::0055::1111 AAMM

Foreign Exchange Trading Methods and Strategies
trading takes the position that the general consensus as expressed by
the media, the analysts, and the trading public, is inherently wrong,
and that it is best to trade against this consensus at market extremes.
Finally, backtesting and autotrading are two important compo-
nents of implementing trading strategies that generally do not rely
upon the trader’ s judgments or discretion. These types of strategies
are primarily technical in nature, and they must necessarily have
rules and criteria that are unambiguous. Backtesting allows the trader
to determine if a given strategy would have been profi table using
past price data, which is an indication of how it might potentially
perform in the future. In contrast, autotrading actually executes real
trades automatically according to a pre - programmed set of instruc-
tions that sets trade entries, stop losses, and profi t limits.
194
cc0055..iinndddd 119944 11//1133//0099 1100::0055::1111 AAMM

CHAPTER 6
Important Elements
of Successful Foreign
Exchange Trading
After reading this chapter, you will be
able to:
● Understand some of the most important elements of
successful trading that many novice traders are reluctant
to learn .
● Recognize the crucial difference that good risk manage-
ment and money management can make in forex trading .
● Realize that most experienced and successful traders
hold the preservation of capital as their top priority,
thereby helping to ensure that they are at least around
to trade another day .
● Apply proper and consistent trading discipline to strive
for the best chances of success in forex trading
● Appreciate the necessary elements that go into a com-
prehensive trading plan .
195
cc0066..iinndddd 119955 11//1133//0099 1100::1111::3311 AAMM

Elements of Successful Foreign Exchange Trading
T
he Boring Side of Success
After all of the excitement learning about trading strategies that
seem to hold great promise of future profi ts, most novice traders are
reluctant to come back down to earth and learn about the “ boring ”
side of successful trading. This includes risk management and money
management, discipline and psychology, and a proper trading plan.
Some novice traders may deem these subjects unnecessary, as
long as their “ sure - thing ” trading strategy produces profi ts. But this
line of thinking could not be further from the truth. In order to
maintain any hope of becoming consistently successful, traders must
learn and internalize certain good habits that have nothing to do
with market analysis or the mechanics of putting in trades. Rather,
these crucial elements of intelligent trading constitute a way of life
that virtually all of the most successful traders have adopted to one
degree or another. Let us begin with a discussion of risk.
A
Risky Business
Perhaps more than any other type of fi nancial trading, foreign
exchange trading makes it extremely diffi cult for inexperienced
traders to manage risk effectively. This is partly due to the fact that
the leverage offered in forex is so high when compared with other
markets. When $ 1 in margin can control $ 100 or more in a trade,
the potential for profi t is magnifi ed to an extreme degree. But many
beginners seem to forget that the risk of ruin is magnifi ed just as
much. High leverage can certainly be a powerful feature in a positive
way, but it can also have a way of tempting unsuspecting traders into
becoming reckless and greedy. As we will soon fi nd out, recklessness
196
cc0066..iinndddd 119966 11//1133//0099 1100::1111::3311 AAMM

Fatter Is Healthier (But Only for Trading Accounts)
and greed are two characteristics that, at some point, will invariably
destroy a trading account.
This brings us to the number one priority of successful t raders —
preservation of capital. Risk and money must be managed in a way
that the ultimate goal is to survive to trade another day. Without
this, all is lost and the game is over. Many experienced traders go a
step further by subscribing to the winning philosophy that if virtu-
ally every ounce of focus is concentrated on preserving capital, the
profi ts will take care of themselves.
F
atter Is Healthier (But Only for
Trading Accounts)
There are many important ways in which traders can work toward
the goal of preserving capital. The most obvious initial step is to
have enough capital to begin with. But how much is “ enough? ”
First, it depends on the amount of risk capital one can afford to
put aside for trading without substantially impacting one ’s life-
style. Then, it depends on the size of the positions that one will be
trading. But just because there is suffi cient margin on account to
open a certain position, does not mean that a trader has suffi cient
capital to trade successfully. For example, many beginners believe
that if $ 1000 is required as margin for one standard lot trade of
$ 100,000 at 100:1 leverage, $ 1000 is enough capital to have in the
account for making the trade. This could not be further from
the truth. Having only enough funds in an account to cover the
minimum required margin for a given position is one of the quick-
est routes to disaster.
197
cc0066..iinndddd 119977 11//1133//0099 1100::1111::3322 AAMM

Elements of Successful Foreign Exchange Trading
The exact amount of money that is considered “ enough ” and
suffi ciently capitalized will vary from trader to trader. But one gen-
eral guideline used by many prudent retail traders is always to have
in the account, at the very least, ten times the amount of margin
required for a typical trade. So, for example, if a trader wishes to trade
one mini- lot of $ 10,000 at a time at 100:1 leverage, where the mar-
gin required is $ 100, that trader should always have at least $ 1000
in the account. By the same token, if a trader wishes to trade one
standard lot of $ 1 00,000 at a time at 100:1 leverage, where the mar-
gin required is $ 1 000, that trader should always have $ 1 0,000 in the
account at the very least. This, again, is only a very general guideline,
as each trader ’s risk profi le and risk appetite will necessarily differ.
R
isk and Reward
After overcoming the fi rst hurdle of being properly capitalized, the
trader can then turn attention to creating a risk/money management
plan to preserve capital. One of the key components of this plan is
to set consistent risk parameters with regard to stop losses and profi t
targets. These should be set in accordance with a properly planned
risk:reward, or perhaps more aptly named, “ reward- to - risk ” ratio.
The reward - to - risk ratio is a simple concept that can work
wonders for the overall profi tability of an account. While optimal
reward - to - risk ratios can be diffi cult to attain in everyday trading,
foreign exchange traders should always strive for the best, or high-
est, ratios possible. A rather high ratio like 4:1, for example, simply
means that on any given trade, a trader is looking to profi t by four
times the amount that the trader is prepared to lose. In real - world
198
cc0066..iinndddd 119988 11//1133//0099 1100::1111::3322 AAMM

Risk and Reward
terms, this means that if a trade is entered with a 30 pip stop loss, for
example, the profi t target would be set at least at 120 pips. The ram-
ifi cations of the reward - to - risk ratio are considerable. With a good
ratio, traders can actually lose signifi cantly more trades than they
win, and still be consistently profi table. This is because their average
profi ts are much larger than their average losses. The concept of a
high reward - to - risk ratio lends itself well to the oft- repeated trader ’s
maxim, “ Let your profi ts run and cut your losses short. ”
So what exactly is the optimal ratio? It can be diffi cult in trading
foreign exchange to achieve ratios as high as 4:1, because at a certain
point with these higher ratios, the trade - off is that losses become
much more frequent than wins. Since the wins would be much
larger in dollar value than the losses, this is perfectly fi ne from a
long - term profi tability standpoint, as mentioned earlier. But the psy-
chological toll of excessively frequent losses, even if relatively small
in value, can eventually become devastating to a trader ’s psyche.
Generally speaking, many forex traders like to target a reward - to -
risk ratio of 3:1 as the ideal. This means that each profi t is targeted
to be at least three times as large as each loss.
While 3:1 may be optimal, however, shooting for 2:1 can often be
more practical in many real - life trading situations. The trick in con-
sistently achieving good ratios like these lies in adapting the ratios to
prevailing market conditions. For example, if a certain chart pattern is
identifi ed on a currency pair, the technical trader will need to make
sure that a profi t target two or three times the magnitude of the stop
loss is realistic before taking the trade. This is just prudent trading. But
if the trader rigidly adheres to unrealistically high ratio requirements,
this may result in too many voluntarily missed opportunities. The
199
cc0066..iinndddd 119999 11//1133//0099 1100::1111::3322 AAMM

Elements of Successful Foreign Exchange Trading
best solution is often the middle path — a reward - to - risk ratio that is
high enough to achieve long - term profi tability, while low enough
to fi t market conditions realistically. Therefore, the true optimal ratio
ultimately depends on each trader’ s own experimentation and what
works best through actual experience.
F
ix Your Fractions
Besides fi nding the right reward - to - risk balance, another important
aspect of a money management plan that focuses on capital preser-
vation is called fi xed fractional money management. This generally
refers to the percentage of total account equity that a trader is will-
ing to risk on each trade. So, for example, if a trading account has
$ 1000 in it, and the trader trades one mini- lot (10,000 units) at a
time for approximately $ 1 per pip, a fi xed fractional plan of 3% of
total equity would necessitate a 30 - pip maximum stop loss on each
mini - lot trade. Why? Because if the trader wants the maximum risk
per trade to be set at 3% of $ 1000, or $ 30, and each pip is worth
about $ 1, that would mean the trader could accept losing up to 30
pips on each trade. This would necessitate putting in stop losses that
are a maximum of 30 pips away from the trade entry for all trades.
Contrary to the common belief that fi xed fractional money man-
agement refers directly to the percentage of account equity actually put
up to make a trade, the real meaning generally refers to the percentage
of total funds placed at risk on each trade as it relates to stop loss place-
ment (along with position sizing). Therefore, the fact that $ 100 of a
trading account ’s total $ 1000 is put up in margin for a trade does not
necessarily mean that 10% of account equity is being risked on this
200
cc0066..iinndddd 220000 11//1133//0099 1100::1111::3322 AAMM

Trailing Stops—Loyal Followers
trade. Only if a stop loss of 100 pips (at a value of $ 1 per pip) is insti-
tuted into this trade would 10% of total equity actually be risked.
Many traders do not favor fi xed fractional money manage-
ment because it encourages the basing of stop losses on an arbitrary
number that generally has very little to do with prevailing market
and trading conditions. For example, a 30 - pip stop loss may be per-
fectly reasonable for a trendline breakout trade on an hourly chart,
but may be completely inappropriate for a head - and - shoulders trade
on a weekly chart. Just because the fi xed fractional percentage may
work well for a trader ’s money management profi le, does not make
it appropriate for every type of trade entered.
At the same time, however, fi xed fractional money management,
when used more as a restraining guideline than as a strict stop loss value,
can serve as a very effective deterrent against the self - destruction of a
trading account. So instead of specifying an exact (fi xed) percentage risk
for each trade, it often works better for traders to loosen the percentage
and make it a maximum risk parameter. For instance, instead of creat-
ing the rigid rule that exactly 2% of total equity will be risked on each
trade, a more adaptable rule might be to require that no single trade can
have a stop loss that exceeds, for example, 4% of total equity. As long as
the stop loss represents less than the predetermined maximum percent-
age of account equity, it can be fi ne - tuned, with the additional help of
position - sizing, to suit the prevailing market and trading conditions.
T
railing Stops — Loyal Followers
In general, stop losses are an integral component of good risk man-
agement. To go a step further in the right direction, the liberal use
201
cc0066..iinndddd 220011 11//1133//0099 1100::1111::3322 AAMM

Elements of Successful Foreign Exchange Trading
of a trailing stop loss strategy can do even more for a trader ’s bottom
line. A trailing stop, as explained in Chapter 2 , is a dynamic order to
close a trade at progressively better prices.
So, for example, a trader buys EUR/USD and applies a 30 - pip
trailing stop to the trade. If price moves in the profi table direc-
tion for this trade (i.e., up), the stop loss follows price by 30 pips.
If price moves at least 30 pips above the entry point of the trade,
profi ts begin to be effectively locked in. This process is automatically
accomplished by the trailing stop mechanism. If, at anytime, price
moves down by 30 pips, the trade gets closed out by the moving
stop loss. Theoretically, if there is no profi t target set and price keeps
moving up forever without fl uctuating down by at least 30 pips, the
trade could gain unlimited profi t. Of course, this would never hap-
pen in the real world of trading, but it just displays the potential
power of the trailing stop.
From a risk management perspective, trailing stops can automate
the twin concepts of cutting losses and letting profi ts run. A trailing
stop ensures that a protective stop loss is always in place, and pro-
vides an easy way to secure hard - earned profi ts on an ongoing basis.
Trailing stops can be instituted automatically using a trading plat-
form ’s trailing stop function, or can be performed manually simply
by moving the static stop loss on an open position in logical incre-
ments as price moves in the trade’ s favor.
S
ize Matters
Very closely related to suffi cient capitalization, reward - to - risk ratios,
and fi xed fractional money management through stop-loss placement,
202
cc0066..iinndddd 220022 11//1133//0099 1100::1111::3333 AAMM

Size Matters
is the sizing of trade positions. Position- s izing is a vital aspect of good
money management. In fact, suffi cient capital and sensible position-
sizing go hand in hand to help curtail risk and prevent the depletion
of a trading account.
As discussed earlier in this book, there are three primary posi-
tion sizes in retail foreign exchange trading. Trading accounts with
the smallest equity usually trade the micro, or super - mini, lot. These
consist of 1000 units of a given currency, and the dollar value
per pip is approximately $ 0.10. The next size up, traded by slightly
larger trading accounts, is called the mini- lot. Mini - lots consist
of 10,000 units of a given currency, and the dollar value per pip
is approximately $ 1.00. Finally, for even larger accounts there is the
standard lot, which consists of 100,000 units of a given currency
and whose per - pip dollar value is approximately $ 10.00. Trading
accounts that are even larger than this may trade in multiple standard
lots at a time.
Which size is best? It all depends on how well capitalized the
account is, as well as the particular risk profi le of the trader. As noted
earlier in this chapter within the section on being properly capi-
talized, there are some rough guidelines that many prudent traders
follow when planning their trade size and account capitalization.
For example, a trader planning on trading standard lots of $ 100,000,
where the margin required per trade is $ 1000 (at 100:1 leverage),
would probably want to have $ 10,000 in trading account equity, at
the very least. At the same time, however, this does not necessarily
mean that a trader with $ 10,000 in a trading account has to trade in
standard lots. Mini - lots are perfectly fi ne, even for larger accounts,
and they actually have an advantage over standard lots. Mini - lots
203
cc0066..iinndddd 220033 11//1133//0099 1100::1111::3333 AAMM

Elements of Successful Foreign Exchange Trading
are much more fl exible than standard lots in providing the ability
to trade in odd unit sizes (e.g., 70,000 currency units traded with 7
mini - lots, as opposed to a 100,000 unit minimum for standard lots).
In addition, mini - lots can accommodate multiple fractional positions
(as explained later in this section).
Clearly, one of the most signifi cant results of trading larger lot
sizes is the increased dollar value per pip. Among other effects of
higher pip value is that it can obviously impact trading psychology a
great deal. Any trader knows the difference between having a small
amount on the line and having a great deal on the line. A trader
watching $ 1/pip price movements is generally less apt to sweat and
make rash trading decisions than the one watching $ 10/pip price
movements.
Overtrading with regard to position - sizing often forces the
trader either to abandon proper money management principles or
set stop losses that are unrealistically close. This is due to the fact
that in order to retain the same risk profi le, higher pip values neces-
sarily mean a smaller number of pips to cushion the trade. The pri-
mary point about proper position- sizing is to avoid overextending
account capital and getting into fi nancially uncomfortable trading
situations.
Closely related to overall position - sizing in the realm of risk
management is the concept of multiple fractional positions. This is
yet another method to help spread and control risk. Multiple frac-
tional positions are smaller components of the main trade. These
smaller positions may be entered all at the same time, and then each
fractional position can progressively be closed in a staggered manner
204
cc0066..iinndddd 220044 11//1133//0099 1100::1111::3333 AAMM

Position Overload
to lock in profi ts as the position moves in a profi table direction. So,
for example, if a trader enters into a long position using 10 mini- lots
(instead of 1 standard lot), each mini - lot can be closed for a profi t as
the price increases, thereby securing partial profi ts in a progressive
fashion.
Another method of spreading risk using multiple fractional
positions employs staggered entries, as opposed to staggered exits.
Each fractional position would be entered at a different price level.
Because it is extremely diffi cult to pinpoint precisely the best single
entry on a trade, multiple fractional entries allow traders to get in on
a position within a fl exible price range instead of at just one price,
thereby spreading some risk among different price levels.
P
osition Overload
Also closely related to overall position- sizing is the common affl ic-
tion of overtrading by opening too many full - sized positions (as
opposed to fractional) at the same time. In foreign exchange trading,
the danger in overtrading lies in more than just the overextension of
account margin, although that is also of grave concern.
The danger that is often overlooked in this market stems from
the fact that, relatively speaking, there are so few different instru-
ments that are practically tradable. This means that it is extremely
diffi cult, if not virtually impossible, to diversify holdings adequately.
In addition, the primary trading instruments in foreign exchange
trading are correlated very closely with one another. This can be
either a positive correlation or a negative correlation.
205
cc0066..iinndddd 220055 11//1133//0099 1100::1111::3333 AAMM

Elements of Successful Foreign Exchange Trading
In the world of equities trading, fi nding diverse, non correlated
investments can be relatively straightforward. In forex, on the other hand,
the four most actively traded currency pairs, EUR/USD, USD/JPY,
GBP/USD, and USD/CHF, are all dependent on the relative value of
the U.S. dollar. The same is true for the next most actively traded pairs,
AUD/USD and USD/CAD. Beyond this, there are only a handful of
common cross currency pairs that are not dollar- based, like EUR/GBP,
EUR/JPY, GBP/JPY, and so on, but these are also extremely interre-
lated. Rounding out the list, most of the exotic pairs are not even prac-
tically tradable because of their intolerably wide spreads stemming from
their low liquidity. So if a trader/investor is involved solely in the forex
market, diversifi cation is simply not a viable option.
Therefore, overtrading in forex can be doubly dangerous. Not
only does it create risk in overextending margin, but it also increases
exposure to highly correlated instruments.
There are several ways to help mitigate this type of risk. The
most obvious way is to place a strict maximum on the number of
positions entered at one time. This means that the trader must sim-
ply have the discipline to refrain from overtrading. Another way is
to reduce the size of each individual trade, as in multiple fractional
positions. This is an easier method, as it allows the trader to enter
the same number of positions as usual, while committing a much
smaller amount to each position.
Yet another method for combating correlation risk that many
novice traders try in the beginning of their forex explorations cent-
ers around attempting to structure a hedged currency portfolio for
controlling risk. For example, since EUR/USD and USD/CHF
generally have a relatively high negative correlation, going long in
206
cc0066..iinndddd 220066 11//1133//0099 1100::1111::3333 AAMM

Position Overload
both or going short in both could potentially be considered akin to
a hedged position with signifi cantly reduced risk.
In actuality, however, there is really no reason to trade like this,
even if it does succeed in controlling volatility risk to a substantial
degree. Because currencies are traded in pairs, going long in corre-
lated pairs like EUR/USD and USD/CHF, for example, simply cre-
ates a synthetic pairing that is akin to just going long a third pair,
in this case EUR/CHF. In the same way, being short both EUR/
USD and USD/CHF is like being short just EUR/CHF. T he risk
reduction in quasi - hedging of this nature is limited to reducing
exposure to volatility by trading the much tamer EUR/CHF pair as
opposed to the much more volatile EUR/USD or USD/CHF pair.
Therefore, the entire exercise of opening two opposing positions
does not make a great deal of sense, as the same goal can be accom-
plished by the much simpler act of trading just the one synthetic pair.
Other traders utilize their broker ’s hedging functionality, which
gives the ability to be long and short in the same currency pair at
the same time, in the hopes that it will provide a reduced risk envi-
ronment for trading. The issue with this perspective, however, is
that without any risk exposure to the market, neither profi ts nor
losses can be made. So it is akin to not having any position at all.
Therefore, hedging within the forex market, though it may be a
component of certain specialized trading strategies, is not one of the
more viable methods for controlling risk in general forex trading.
In short, there are really no shortcuts to proper risk and money
management. The best ways to combat the tendency to overtrade
is simply either to cut back on the number of positions opened or
reduce the size of each position.
207
cc0066..iinndddd 220077 11//1133//0099 1100::1111::3344 AAMM

Elements of Successful Foreign Exchange Trading
M
easuring Risk with a Trendline
As touched upon earlier in the book, the primary analytical method
for measuring and controlling risk from a trading strategy perspec-
tive lies in the use of technical analysis. One of the greatest strengths
of technical analysis is that it allows traders to quantify precisely, and
thereby help control, the risk factors inherent in trading.
The most obvious risk control application of technical analysis is
stop-loss placement. Technical analysis employs a simple and elegant
rationale for determining the location of stop losses. When the tech-
nical reasons for getting into a trading position no longer exist or
are no longer valid, that position should be abandoned, even if at a
loss. The purpose of a stop loss, after all, is to cut losses while those
losses are still manageable.
For example, in a potential breakout situation where a trade is
entered on a breakout above a certain price level, if price subsequently
falls back below that level, the reasons for entering the trade are no
longer valid. Therefore, the stop loss should be placed right under-
neath the breakout level, where the break will have proven itself to be
either false or premature. A failed breakout, as described above, is cer-
tainly a good reason to get out of a trade with a manageable loss.
Here is another example of risk management from a technical
analysis perspective. For a trader who has entered a short position
on a pullback up to a downtrend resistance line, if on one of the
subsequent pullbacks price exceeds that downtrend line by a signifi -
cant amount, a good location for a stop loss would be right above
the trendline. A break above the descending trendline would mean
that price is no longer pulling back and continuing the downtrend,
but might perhaps be reversing its trend. If this is the case, a properly
208
cc0066..iinndddd 220088 11//1133//0099 1100::1111::3344 AAMM

Great Expectations
EXHIBIT 6.1
Technical Stop-Loss Placement
Source: FX Solutions – FX AccuCharts
placed stop loss above the line can potentially prevent a great deal of
pain. See Exhibit 6.1 .
Technical analysis, therefore, can be an essential component of
an effective risk management plan.
G
reat Expectations
Another way in which risk management is related to trading strat-
egy lies in the concept of positive expectancy. Even with all of the
best money management practices and risk control methods in
the world, a trader should not hope to achieve consistent profi tabil-
ity without a trading strategy that delivers a positive expectancy.
209
cc0066..iinndddd 220099 11//1133//0099 1100::1111::3344 AAMM

Elements of Successful Foreign Exchange Trading
What exactly is positive expectancy? It simply means that the
trading strategy should consistently produce a net gain in equity.
This could mean either a higher average number of winning trades
than losses, or a greater average profi t per winning trade than loss
per losing trade (reward - to - risk), or any combination of the two.
Positive expectancy is absolutely crucial to every trader ’s quest
for consistent profi tability. It is related closely to risk management
because the higher the tested expectancy for any given strategy, the
better the risk profi le of any trader trading that strategy, all other
factors being equal.
In order to test and potentially improve a strategy ’s expectancy,
the most common method is to backtest the strategy. As discussed in
Chapter 5 , backtesting can take one of two forms— manual and auto-
mated. Manual backtesting consists of looking back on historical charts
and manually applying trades according to the tested strategy. These
hypothetical trades should then be observed and recorded to obtain
a long - term record of performance. Automated backtesting, on the
other hand, employs sophisticated software to apply and record trades
automatically on historical price data. Results are quickly d elivered to
the backtester, and the trader can then try to tweak the parameters
of the strategy in order to fi ne- tune a strategy with a higher expect-
ancy. At least some form of backtesting is extremely helpful, and almost
a necessity, for creating a money management plan that works.
P
sychologically Speaking
While this entire chapter thus far has been focused on risk and money
management, which are extremely vital to a successful trader’ s skill set,
210
cc0066..iinndddd 221100 11//1133//0099 1100::1111::3344 AAMM

Psychologically Speaking
another important aspect of success in forex is trading psychology.
Foremost within this realm of trading psychology is the concept of
discipline. Greed and fear are the two most dangerous emotions to a
trader. Discipline is the remedy for these destructive emotions.
The concept of discipline can take many forms. This includes
discipline to:
• Refrain from overtrading
• Adhere to a sensible money management regimen
• Act according to a structured trading plan
• Cut losses and let profi ts run
• Follow religiously a trading system with a proven positive
expectancy
• Trade without succumbing to the destructive emotions of
greed and fear
• Avoid chasing a runaway market
• Use stop losses and/or trailing stops
• Stay out of a trade if there is no valid reason to be in that trade
Trading emotionally is one of the easiest ways to be unprofi t-
able in forex. Of course, as humans we could never be devoid of
emotion, nor would we ever want to be. But as traders, it is most
certainly in our best interests to use discipline to overpower many
of the negative effects of emotional trading.
There are many examples of emotional trading that both novice
traders and experienced traders alike succumb to on frequent occa-
sions. For one, many traders fall into the trap of trading aggressively,
211
cc0066..iinndddd 221111 11//1133//0099 1100::1111::3355 AAMM

Elements of Successful Foreign Exchange Trading
or even angrily, after either a string of losses or one particularly dev-
astating loss. This is often caused by a desire to get back at the market
with a vengeance. The trader ’s underlying sentiment is that the market
is the adversary, and that aggressive trading can somehow make back
the lost equity, teaching the market a lesson in the process. Clearly, this
is irrational behavior that invariably leads to even further devastation
of the trading account. Discipline to accept losses gracefully and to
continue adhering to the trading plan is the primary weapon against
falling into this kind of a psychological trap.
A related trap that is found often in foreign exchange trading
occurs when traders experience a winning streak and begin believ-
ing that they have mastered the market. Oftentimes, these traders
will start thinking that they are unstoppable and that the principles
of p rudent trading somehow do not apply to them. Greed and reck-
lessness then enter the picture. When this occurs, prior winnings
generally turn into subsequent losses, and these traders then become
compelled to play catch - up by attempting to make back the winnings.
This results in a vicious cycle that eats away quickly at any account, if
trading discipline is not re i ntroduced before it becomes too late.
Another example of emotional trading occurs when traders are
alerted to a runaway price move after a large portion of the move
has already occurred. The emotion that surfaces is one of fear — fear
of missing out on the trade of the decade. Traders in this position
that have not mastered the discipline to refrain from acting upon
reckless emotions, will often jump into the trade blindly in an
attempt to chase the market. They do this even if the entry turns out
to be at the worst possible time, like buying at a top, where price
has already exhausted itself after a signifi cant upmove. Trading in this
212
cc0066..iinndddd 221122 11//1133//0099 1100::1111::3355 AAMM

Psychologically Speaking
manner, without discipline, is a sure method of racking up frequent
and substantial losses.
Yet other traders who need to work on developing discipline
enter into positions for no other reason than the excitement of trad-
ing. To these individuals, trading represents a recreational activity
much like gambling or sports, where constant action is the name
of the game. When these types of traders treat forex trading as gam-
bling, it can actually become very similar to gambling. If positions
are opened purely for the purpose of creating excitement and avoid-
ing boredom, forex can have even worse odds than many casino
games. Of course, this is the extreme. The vast majority of forex
traders do not constantly act on an insatiable itch for action. For
some traders, however, there is usually an occasional need to trade
for no other reason than the thrill of it. This type of trading should
be avoided at all costs, as it is thoroughly detrimental to a healthy
account balance.
It is also detrimental to trading accounts when traders fail to fol-
low their own tested trading methods because of a combination of
impatience, greed, fear, and/or other psychological factors. For exam-
ple, a trader may have backtested a technical trading system that was
shown to have a high positive expectancy under diverse market con-
ditions. But suppose this system dictates that three different prereq-
uisites should occur on the chart all at the same time before a trade
may be initiated. What will often happen, for a variety of reasons, is
that the trader will become anxious to trade, and will therefore start
becoming both lazy and lenient on the prerequisites. If the condi-
tions are close enough, the trader may just take the trade. This type
of undisciplined trading completely invalidates any backtesting work
213
cc0066..iinndddd 221133 11//1133//0099 1100::1111::3355 AAMM

Elements of Successful Foreign Exchange Trading
performed prior to live trading. Therefore, failing to follow a tested
strategy faithfully is virtually the same as gambling on an untested
strategy.
Finally, to close out this section on discipline and trading psy-
chology, here are just a few words on hoping and wishing. To put it
succinctly, there is no room in profi table trading for these two sen-
timents. The markets will move where they need to move, and no
amount of hoping or wishing can change that. No individual forex
trader could ever actually will the market to move a certain way. But
all day and every day, traders are still trying. Doing so, however, can
seriously hurt these traders. When they hope and pray for the best
under deteriorating circumstances, they often fail to prepare for the
worst. Among other negative consequences, this can mean a failure
to cut losses when those losses most need to be cut. The best way to
prevent the potentially destructive sentiments of hoping and wish-
ing is to have a strict trading plan and to develop the discipline to
follow it consistently, no matter what may happen. This brings us
to the next and fi nal section of this chapter and this book.
P
lan the Trade and Trade the Plan
The master trading plan should encompass elements of everything
that has been discussed throughout this book. This includes a basic
foundation in the mechanics of foreign exchange trading, an ana-
lytical base including both technical and fundamental analysis, a
repertoire of solid trading strategies and methods, a comprehensive
risk/money management plan, and a disciplined approach to trading.
Every detail of the trading plan should be recorded in a dedicated
214
cc0066..iinndddd 221144 11//1133//0099 1100::1111::3355 AAMM

Plan the Trade and Trade the Plan
journal, addressing all aspects of day - to - day trading in order to cover
as many contingencies as possible.
At the very least, a solid trading plan should include the follow-
ing specifi c elements:
• Amount of starting capital to be used for trading
• Primary lot size and leverage used
• Maximum percentage of trading capital risked on each trade
• Reward - to - risk ratio target
• Realistic daily, weekly, and monthly profi t goals
• Specifi c daily, weekly, and monthly loss limits (the point of
monetary loss at which a trader stops trading for the given
period)
• An entire description of the trading strategy(s) used
• Specifi c trade entry criteria according to the tested trading
strategy
• Specifi c trade exit criteria (stop losses, profi t limits, and/or
manual exits) according to the tested trading strategy
It cannot be emphasized enough how important a good trading
plan is to a successful trader. Running a successful business, which
is how forex trading should be approached, usually demands some
kind of a written business plan at some point. Of course, a business
can certainly run without a written business plan, but its potential
for success is increased a great deal if there is a plan in place that
stresses the vision, direction, and step - by- step process for reaching
consistent profi tability. Trading is no different.
215
cc0066..iinndddd 221155 11//1133//0099 1100::1111::3355 AAMM

Elements of Successful Foreign Exchange Trading
Besides maintaining this written trading plan, successful traders
also take notes every day, recording the trading activities of the day.
In this way, these traders can fi nd out if their actions conformed to
the plan, and how they can constantly improve their trading habits.
With these good trading habits, along with knowledge, practice,
and a well-thought - out trading plan, any individual can hold the
blueprint for success in foreign exchange trading. Possessing all of
the characteristics of a successful forex trader is not an easy goal. But
in the end, it is well worth the effort to get there.
C
hapter Summary
Initially, most traders tend to gravitate toward the most tangible
aspects of foreign exchange trading that are the easiest to grasp.
This includes technical and fundamental analysis, as well as concrete
trading methods and strategies. What many of these traders tend to
overlook are some of the most important attributes necessary for
successful foreign exchange trading.
To begin with, successful traders have learned how to manage
risk. This is especially crucial in the highly leveraged world of for-
eign exchange trading. In order to manage this risk, experienced
traders make their highest priority the preservation of capital. In
many respects, this can be considered even more important than a
focus on just making profi ts.
A concentration on risk control and the preservation of capi-
tal starts with good money management. The most basic require-
ment for good money management is suffi cient capitalization. The
amount of capital required depends fi rst on the amount of risk
216
cc0066..iinndddd 221166 11//1133//0099 1100::1111::3366 AAMM

Chapter Summary
capital one can afford without substantially impacting one’ s lifestyle.
Then, it depends on the planned magnitude of trading and level of
risk appetite.
After the capital requirement basics are satisfi ed, a trader can
then turn attention toward reward - to - risk ratios, fi xed fractional
money management, and potential trailing stop-loss strategies. These
all have to do with the proper placement of stop losses in relation
to the larger goals of preserving capital, reducing risk, and achieving
consistent net profi tability.
Beyond these key components of intelligent trading, the trader
must additionally address the prudent sizing of trades, which, in turn,
also means an avoidance of overloading on positions. Overtrading in
this respect carries the danger not only of margin overextension, but
also potentially precarious exposure to a non d iversifi ed, highly cor-
related portfolio of currency holdings.
With regard to the analytical side of trading, technical analysis
excels as a method for quantifying and controlling risk through stop
loss placement. In addition, any trading strategy employed must ulti-
mately have a signifi cant positive expectancy in order to contribute
to a viable money management system and potential net profi tabil-
ity. The expectancy of a strategy can be determined through back-
testing, whether manual or automated, where the strategy is applied
to past price data in order to evaluate its hypothetical historical
performance.
Risk and money cannot be managed effectively without one
key component of healthy trading psychology. That component is
discipline. Even if all other factors are in place to foster success in
foreign exchange trading, a trader will fail without discipline. There
217
cc0066..iinndddd 221177 11//1133//0099 1100::1111::3366 AAMM

Elements of Successful Foreign Exchange Trading
are many types of discipline that are essential to achieving consistent
profi tability in trading, all of which need time and effort to develop.
Perhaps the most important discipline is that of adhering to a
well - prepared trading plan.
The trading plan brings all the necessary elements of trading
into one cohesive whole. It acts as the blueprint and the business
plan for traders that are serious about seeking sustainable success
in the foreign exchange markets. Perhaps no other tool, whether a
chart or a news feed or a crystal ball, carries as signifi cant an impact
on a trader’ s potential success as a good, specifi c trading plan. It is
truly one of the essentials of foreign exchange trading.
218
cc0066..iinndddd 221188 11//1133//0099 1100::1111::3366 AAMM

Index
24-hour market, 7–9 CCI (Commodity Channel Index)
oscillator, 94–95
Ask price, 40. Central banks, 6, 13–14. See also Interest
AUD/NZD currency pair, 23 rates, central bank
AUD/USD currency pair, 11, 23, 39 Chart patterns. See Patterns, chart
Australian dollar (AUD), 11 Commissions, broker 39–41
Autotrading, 190–192 Commitments of Traders (COT) Report,
Average Directional Index (ADX) 185–186
indicator, 89, 141 Consensus data, 123, 183
Average True Range (ATR) indicator, 89 Consumer Price Index (CPI), 113
Contrarian trading, 184–187
Backtesting, 187–190, 210 Correlation, currency pair, 205–207
Bank for International Settlements (BIS), Cost of carry, 41–44. See also Carry trading
6, 11 Counter currency, 22. See also Quote
Bank of Canada (BOC), 106 currency
Bank of England (BOE), 106 Currency conversion, 2, 14, 38
Bank of Japan (BOJ), 6, 106 Currency pairs, structure of, 22–23
Bar charts, structure of, 52–56
Base currency, 22 Day trading, 137–140
Bid price, 39–40 Discipline, trading, 28, 211–214
Bollinger Bands indicator, 89–91, 149 Divergence, price-oscillator, 92, 170–172
Bollinger, John, 91 Diversifi cation, 205–207
Breakout trading, 138, 139–140, 150–157, Downtrend, defi nition of, 66–67
158–160, 178, 186–187 Durable Goods Report, 114
Bretton Woods Agreements, 3–4
British pound (GBP), 10, 22 Economic indicators/data, 110–118,
121–124
CAD/JPY currency pair, 23 Economic growth, 107
Canadian dollar (CAD), 11 Economics, basic, 15–16, 104–105
Candlestick charts, structure of, 52–56. See Elliott Wave Theory, 98–99, 166–169
also Patterns, candlestick chart Employment Cost Index (ECI), 115–116
Carry trading, 42, 108–110, 179–182 Employment situation, 15, 112–113
219
bbiinnddeexx..iinndddd 221199 11//1133//0099 1100::2222::4499 AAMM

Index
Entry orders: Long, going, 24, 44
limit, 27–28 Lot sizes, 32–33, 39
stop, 27–28
Euro (EUR), 10 MACD (Moving Average Convergence
EUR/GBP currency pair, 23 Divergence) indicator, 92–93
EUR/JPY currency pair, 23 Major currency pairs, 9–12
EUR/USD currency pair, 10–11, Manual exits, 31–32
23, 39 Margin, 33–36, 45
European Central Bank (ECB), 6, 106 Margin call, 34–36
Existing Home Sales Report, 116 Market manipulation, 6
Market orders, 27
Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) Mental stops, 31–32
Rate Decisions, 118 Micro-lots. See Lot sizes
Fed Funds rate, 118 Mini-lots. See Lot sizes
Fibonacci: Moving averages:
golden ratio basis for, 96–97, 162 crossovers of, 74–77
theory of, 96–98, 162 defi nition of, 72–74
trading, 161–163 trend trading use of, 141
Fixed fractional money management, Multiple fractional
200–201 positions, 204–205
Floating currencies, 4 Multiple timeframe trading, 172–175
Fundamental analysis, 15, 103–126,
130–133, 183–184 News trading, 121–124, 183–184
New Zealand dollar (NZD), 11
GBP/CHF currency pair, 23 Nison, Steve, 54–56
GBP/USD currency pair, 10–11, 23, 39 Non-Farm Payrolls (NFP) data, 112
GDP (Gross Domestic Product), 15,
111–112 OHLC (Open, High, Low and Close), bar
Golden ratio. See Fibonacci, golden ratio and candlestick, 53–56
basis for Oscillators, technical chart, 92–95, 149,
Gold Standard, 3 170–172
Overbought and oversold, 92
Hedge funds, 13 Over-the-counter (OTC), trading, 7
Hedging, 44–45, 206–207 Overtrading, 205–207
“Holy grail,” 128–129
Housing Starts report, 116 Parabolic Stop–And–Reverse (SAR)
indicator, 90–92
Indicators, technical chart, 88–95, 139 Paralysis by analysis, 51
Industrial Production report, 115 Patterns:
Infl ation, 15, 107, 118 candlestick chart, 78–82, 161
Interest rates, central bank 15, 42–43, continuation bar chart, 84–88,
105–107, 108–109, 118, 119–120 159–160
general chart, 56
Japanese yen ( JPY), 10, 22, 37 multiple candle, 80–82
reversal bar chart, 83–84, 159–160
Leverage, 12, 33–34, 39, 43 single candle, 79–80
Liquidity, 5–6 trading, 158–161
220
bbiinnddeexx..iinndddd 222200 11//1133//0099 1100::2222::4499 AAMM

Index
Western bar chart, 82–88, 158–160 Standard lots. See Lot sizes
Personal Income and Outlays Report, Stochastics oscillator, 94
117–118 Stop losses, 28–30, 36, 155–156, 200–201,
Pips, defi nition and calculation of, 36, 208–209
37–39 Super-mini lots. See Lot sizes
Pivot points, 95–96, 164–166 Supply and demand, 15–16, 105, 117
Point & fi gure charts, 57, 99–100, 175–178 Support and resistance, 16–17, 59–64, 149,
Ponsi, Ed, 157–158 153–155, 178
Position trading, 130–134 Swap. See Cost of carry
Positive expectancy, 209–210 Swing trading, 134–137
Prechter, Robert R., 25–26
Producer Price Index (PPI), 114 Technical analysis, 16–17, 50–102, 183–184,
Profi t: 208–209
limits, 31 Terminology, currency, 11
targets, 160 Timeframes, charting, 57–59, 65–66,
Psychology, trading, 210–214 172–175
Pullbacks and throwbacks, 156–157 Trade balance, 15, 116–117
Purchasing Managers Index (PMI), 115 Trade size, 32–33, 202–205
Trading plan, 214–216
Quote currency, 22. See also Counter Trailing stops, 30, 145, 201–202
currency Trend:
channels, 68–72
Range trading, 147–150 concept of, 64–72
Real body, candlestick, 55–56 lines, 67–72, 178
Reserve Bank of Australia (RBA), 106 trading (following), 140–146
Retail sales report, 113 Trevisani, Joseph, 119–121
Retail trading, 4, 14 Turnover, trade, 6
Revisions, economic, 123–124
Risk/reward ratio, 32, 146, 198–200 Uptrend, defi nition of, 66–67
ROC (Rate Of Change) oscillator, 94 USD/CAD currency pair, 11, 23, 39
Rollover, 5, 43, 109, 180 USD/CHF currency pair, 11, 23, 39
RSI (Relative Strength Index) oscillator, USD/JPY currency pair, 10–11,
93–94 22–23, 39
U.S. dollar (USD), 10, 22, 38
Shadows, candlestick, 55 U.S. Federal Reserve (the Fed), 6, 106, 118
Short, selling, 24, 44
Spot forex, 5–7 Whipsaws, 76–77
Spreads, 39–41 Wicks, candlestick. See Shadows, candlestick
221
bbiinnddeexx..iinndddd 222211 11//1133//0099 1100::2222::4499 AAMM



