VIP
Edition
$
¤
www.forexhero.eu
Forex Hero
THE ULTIMATE HANDBOOK
FOREX TRADING
BASICS & SECRETS
Volume 3.0
BEST FOR
BEGINNERS

There’s a lot of information about forex trading spread all over the web, but
many of them are out of date, and lots of them contain only a fraction of
what you need to know to become a successful trader. Let’s fix that.
About this book
The usual way Our way
Time: 4 years Time: 45 minutes
The popularity of the “Forex Basics & Secrets in 15 That’s why we have tried to distill all the methods
Minutes” e-book has encouraged us to create the to their bare minimum. You will not find long
third upgraded edition. We received a lot of great watery essay type paragraphs here, just
feedback about the first and second e-book actionable and easy-to-digest information.
(thank you!)
For this new edition we have rewritten This e-book will help you learn Forex trading
everything from the ground up. We are pretty skills in the fastest time possible! It doesn't
sure you won’t find so many distilled tips matter so much what education and background
anywhere else. We made this ebook as the you have. Our program has shown interesting
ultimate learning resource for ourselves and results: people with no previous financial
hope you enjoy it too! market experience often delivered better
performance than those with the experience!
Don't let the simplicity of this book disappoint or Watch the TV series “Million-Dollar Trader” and
fool you. If someone teaches you something and it this fact is confirmed as well.
sounds really complex, they probably haven't
taken the time to think through how to boil it
down. Be careful with folks like that. There's a
difference between being good at something and
being good at teaching it.

$
¤
SECTION 01
INTRODUCTION
AND KEY CONCEPTS

Section 01 | Introduction and key concepts
Forex trading quick facts
How it works
You choose a reputable broker, register, open or download its
terminal (platform), choose the leverage, make a deposit, and just
trade the currency pairs by anticipating if these will go up or down
(Buy or Sell). The currency pair price changes will generate your
profits.
It is better to invest in the currency of a country that is growing
faster and fund it with a currency of a country that is growing
slower.
When does it work
The market is open 24 hours, 5.5 days a week for trading. Read on
to uncover deeper secrets about forex timing.

Section 01 | Introduction and key concepts
What is forex & Key terms
F O R E X
Forex is an international currency market
with daily deals worth $4 billion.
foreign exchange
The most common currency pairs
EUR/USD USD/ CHF
The trade in Forex occurs between two
GBP/USD EUR/JPY
currencies, because one currency is being
bought and another – sold at the same
time. USD/ JPY USD/ CAD
EUR/USD
28%
EUR /USD
Base Quote
Currency Currency
TOP PAIR 1/3 of all
deals
EEUURR//UUSSDD
Point (Pip)
The fourth unit after the
Selling price (Bid) Buying price (Ask)
decimal point, which is the
1.3000 1.3001 smallest unit of an exchange rate.
spread
Spread
The difference between the sell
point
quote and the buy quote (in pips).
The smaller the spread,
the more liquid the currency!

Section 01 | Introduction and key concepts
5 advantages of forex
Make money even in times of crisis
While the stock market and commercial bank deposits are in deep
depression during the crisis, Forex profits, because any change in
currency can be used to make profit. A falling market is as profitable
for Forex trading as a developing one because unlike in stock trading
you can short the falling assets.
Work while lying in a hammock
All you need to start making money is a computer or a smart
phone and an Internet connection. Your work space and goals
are up to you!
Start with $10,000 $300
Until around 2002, the average investment needed to start
$
trading was around $10,000. Today and unlike other finance
markets, Forex doesn’t require a huge budget for you to take part.
You can start trading with just $300 - $500.
Easy rules
Unlike the stock market with tens of thousands of different shares,
Forex works with 8 basic currencies, which are the center of most
trades. Moreover, there are significantly less factors that influence
currency exchange rates than in the stock market.
Withdraw profit whenever
you want
A $50 billion market isn’t just a miraculously beautiful
number – it is also what ensures that you can sell or buy
any amount of currency you wish at any moment.

Section 01 | Introduction and key concepts
3 main disadvantages of forex
Most of other forex learning materials will tell you that forex offers an easy
way to make money. Unlike those others we will tell you that it’s not true!
Here are the three main things you need to consider before investing any
time or money in currency trading:
Trader survival rate
99% of day traders lose
1% of all traders
can profit net of fees
money
Only 7%
remain after
5 years
Some just manage to make more than they 80% quit within
the first 2 years
lose. You'll know you're not a beginner
40% trade only
anymore when you're spending your time for one month
thinking about where and when to best cut
All traders start with the
your losses. dream to get rich quick
Will you be the 1% ?
High risk to lose the
whole position
In stock trading, unlike forex, it is very
unlikely that you will lose all the money
when investing in the stock market.
It’s not for everyone
If you are not disciplined and are prone to
rash decisions, then perhaps currency
trading is not for you. If you are too busy to
find time for managing an investment
portfolio, then you should consider social
trading where you can copy experienced
traders so that they do the “heavy lifting” for
you.

Section 01 | Introduction and key concepts
Advice for the busy ones
If you’re like most of our readers, you’re commited to winning at work and
succeeding in life. But the truth is, you struggle with finding enought time
to do it all. That’s exactly where social trading can help - you can follow
experienced traders, learn from them online and copy the trades of those
who have earned your trust. Here’s how it works:
1 Choose a platform
Even if you’re new to Forex, there are beginner
friendly platforms like eToro or Tradeo that
offer you an interesting opportunity – to
follow the best traders and copy their
transactions.
2 Follow the leaders
TTOOPP ttrraaddeerrss
Start following the best traders and watch
their activities.
SS.. EEmmmmaannuueell
FFoollllooww
ZZhheenngg BBiinn
FFoollllooww
JJaann MMoorrtteenn
FFoollllooww
Zheng Bin
Japan 3 Copy their trades
Follow
After you choose a top trader whose actions
Copy
you wish to copy, decide upon an amount of
Zheng Bin sold EUR/USD @1.1244 money to invest into copying his transactions
2 minutes ago Copy trade
and press “copy”.
15,407 people are investing in EUR/USD
75% are selling
4 Learn & Profit
Now you can sit back and watch a professional
make transactions for you. This is also a good
way to learn Forex strategies in a real-life
trading environment.

Section 01 | Introduction and key concepts
Advice from Warren Buffet
To those who dislike big risks
If you don’t like taking big risk, then take the advice from Warren Buffet - the
most successful investor. This is the advice he gave to his own testament money
managers:
Put 10% of the cash in short-term ...When the dumb investor realises how
government bonds and 90% in a very dumb he is and buys an index fund, he
low cost S&P 500 index fund. (I becomes smarter than the smartest
suggest Vanguard’s). I believe the investors.
index’s long-term results will be
superior to those attained by most
investors.
Proof
A $100,000 investment in the S&P 500
in February 1977 would be worth
about $6 million as of the end of
2015, included reinvested dividends.

Section 01 | Introduction and key concepts
Example of how EUR/USD dropped
In the chart below you can see how the euro dropped due to multiple
political factors. This was a great opportunity to make money shorting
(betting that it would decline) the euro.
Prime Minister
EUR/USD
of Greece announces
referendum
Berlusconi
resigns
Central banks
agree to stimulate
The EU cannot
liquidity of finan-
agree upon
cial transaction
changes in the
ECB
treaty
announces a
new president
Nov 1 Dec 1
2011 2011
Source: Morgan Stanley Research, Bloomberg.

Section 01 | Introduction and key concepts
Leverage, Lots & Spread
Term Leverage
Through the use of leverage, traders are able to than you have in your account, because you
invest a small amount of money and trade much effectively “leverage” your free balance to open a
larger deal sizes. This is useful because the larger trade. Leverage is shown as a ratio, for
movement in currency rates can be very small, example 1:100. Note that leverage amplifies both
and larger trades represent larger profits/losses potential
for every pip change in the rate. profits and losses alike.
Leverage allows you to trade with more money
Stock market Forex market
Maximum leverage 1:2 from 1:10 to 1:400
Varying lot sizes
Term Lot
In Forex, all transactions can be conducted via standard, mini, and micro lots. Each lot size accounts for
a different measure of units of the base currency, which in turn presents a different pip value. Below is a
simple chart to illustrate the differences in lot sizes, measured in units, volume for the major pairs where
the base currency is USD.
Pip Value
Units of
Volume
(base: USD)
base currency
Standard Lot 100,000 units 1 1 pip = $10
Mini Lot 10,000 units 0.1 1 pip = $1
MMiincri oL oLto t 110,0’00000 u unnitist s 0 0.1.0 1 1 1 p pipip = = $ $10.10
The smaller contract sizes have a broad appeal to beginner investors who do not want to take on a
disproportional amount of risk. Those traders who are looking to get started in the forex market should
consider opening a mini account because of the smaller contract sizes.
Term Spread
The difference between the bid price and the ask price is called a spread. If we were to look at the
following quote: EUR/USD = 1.2500/03, the spread would be 0.0003 or 3 pips, also known as points.
Although these movements may seem insignificant, even the smallest point change can result in
thousands of dollars being made or lost due to leverage. Again, this is one of the reasons that
speculators are so attracted to the forex market; even the tiniest price movement can result in huge
profit.

Section 01 | Introduction and key concepts
How leverage works
Leverage
“Leverage” simply means borrowed funds. While
the high degree of leverage used in forex trading
magnifies returns and risks, a few safety
precautions used by professional traders may
help mitigate these risks.
Example Tips & Warnings
You decide to buy 100,000 EUR and sell USD at Leverage is a very aggressive investment
a rate of 1.4100. Do you need more than strategy and only those with high risk
100,000 US dollars to open the trade? No! With tolerance should consider using big leverage.
a leverage of 1:50 you will need to put down
only 1/50 of the deal size as the margin, which Use leverage appropriate to your comfort
works out to $2,820. level: Using 1:50 leverage means that a 2%
adverse move could wipe out all your equity
Calculate the margin: or margin. If you are a relatively cautious
Leverage 1:50 investor or trader, use a lower level of leverage
with perhaps 1:5 or 1:10 leverage.
Divide 100,000 by 50=2000 EUR
2000 EUR x 1.41=$2,820
The leverage available on positions carried
Margin=$2,820
over the weekend may vary.
Maximum leverage limits vary in different
This is the amount that will be used to cover
countries, varying from 1:10 to 1:400.
your potential losses. In other words, the
margin is the actual amount that you are
Use Stop Loss orders! Stops can be used not
risking to lose if the trade goes against you.
just to ensure that losses are capped, but also
to protect profits.

Section 01 | Introduction and key concepts
Example: leverage in use
Going short on euro
Europe has been hit by a crisis, so you expect the euro to fall against the US dollar.
EUR/USD
1.4000
Open @ 1.3800
1.3500
Profit: $138,400
Close @ 1.3108
1.3000
1.nov 1.dec
Case B: Leverage 1:50 Case B: Leverage 1:200
1. You open a position of 1 lot, which 1. You open a position of 1 lot, which
requires an initial deposit of $2,760 requires an initial deposit of $690
(€100,000*1.3800/50). (€100,000*1.3800/200).
2. You were right. Euro depreciates against 2. You were right. Euro depreciates against
the dollar to 1.3108 and you decide to the dollar to 1.3108 and you decide to
close your trade and take your profits. close your trade and take your profits.
3. Result: The euro fell by 692 pips (1.3800 3. Result: The euro fell by 692 pips (1.3800
- 1.3108 x 10’000). Your profit is 692 x 1 - 1.3108 x 10’000). Your profit is 692 x 1
(lot) x 50 (Leverage) = $34,600 (lot) x 200(Leverage) = $138,400
Investment: $2,760 Investment: $690
Profit: $34,600 Profit: $138,400
If the trend moves against the investor, leverage magnifies losses the same way it
magnifies returns in the examples above.

Section 01 | Introduction and key concepts
How much should I invest?
Traders should look to use an effective leverage of 10-to1
or less.
Research shows that the amount of capital in your trading account can
affect your profitability. Traders with at least $5,000 of capital tend to
utilize more conservative amounts of leverage.
It is recommended to invest $1,000 - $5,000 and use a leverage of 1:10. With smaller investment you
will not get enough profits as the average changes in the currency rates are small. Thus traders who
invest small amounts ($50 - $100) are inclined to use big leverages to get tangible profits, which in
turn is very risky.

Section 01 | Introduction and key concepts
Understand Bulls & Bears
A visual trick for memorizing what is bull and what is
bear
On Wall Street, the bulls and bears are in a constant struggle. If you haven't heard of these terms
already, you undoubtedly will as you begin to invest. The terms bull market and bear market describe
upward and downward market trends, respectively, and can be used to describe either the market as
a whole or specific sectors and securities. These images will help you memorize which is which.
Bullish action Bearish action
Bullish trend Bearish trend
Bullish candlestick Bearish candlestick

Section 01 | Introduction and key concepts
Unlock the potential of charts
How to read candlestick charts
The line is
called
“shadow”
Highest price Highest price
of the day of the day
Close price Open price
The color bar is
called
“body”
Open price Close price
Lowest price Lowest price
of the day of the day
Color variation 1 Color variation 2
Close Open Close Open
Open Close Open Close
A. Doji - when the opening and closing price are
equal.
B. Long-Legged Doji - after small candlesticks,
they indicate a potential trend change.
C. 4 Price Doji - where the high and low are equal.
A. B. C.
Normally only seen on thinly traded pairs.

For optimum risk-reward
ratio it is recomended
toinvest at least $300
Min. Max. Social
Platform Deposit Leverage Rating trading
*
1 $200 1:400 visit site
www.etoro.com
2 visit site
$25 1:200
www.easyforex.com
3
visit site
$100 1:200
www.tradeo.com
**
4 $100 1:300 visit site
www.plus500.com
5 visit site
$2,000 1:50
www.fxcm.com
* eToro is a Social Investment Network.
**Plus500 Ltd is a CFD only Service. Your Capital may be at risk.

$
¤
SECTION 02
KEY DRIVERS OF
CURRENCY MOVEMENTS

Section 02 | Key drivers of currency movements
The key drivers of currency rates
Currencies move primarily based on supply and demand. That is, on the
most fundamental level, a currency rallies because there is a demand for
that currency. Regardless of whether the demand is for hedging,
speculative, or conversion purposes, true movements are based on the
need for the currency. Currency values decrease when there is excess
supply.
Supply and demand should be the real determinants for predicting future movements. However, how
to predict supply and demand is not as simple as many would think. Two of the primary factors
affecting supply and demand of currencies are interest rates and the overall strength of the
economy. There are many factors that contribute to the net supply and demand for a currency and the
strength of the economy. Read on to uncover the main drivers that influence the exchange rates.
The number of economic announcements made each day from around the world can be intimidating,
so we will focus just on the most important ones.
How are they divided
The drivers are divided into three major groups: Geo-political, Economic and Market Psychology.
2 1 3
Geo-political Economic Market
conditions factors psychology
Central bank
5
Policy divergence

Section 02 | Key drivers of currency movements
Kathy’s Top 9 key drivers & indicators
In order to save your time on navigating a huge list of different economic indicators we went through
different books of pro traders and compiled a list of the top indicators that have the biggest influence
on currency rates. Here they are:
Kathy Lien
Chief Currency Strategist at Forex
Capital Markets LLC. Former Currency
trader at JPMorgan Chase.
TOP 9
Unemployment
(NFP or Non Farm
1 6 Retail sales
Payroll)
Will US employment
continue to grow?
Manufacturing
Interest rates
Purchasing
2 (FOMC rate 7
Managers' Index
decisions)
(PMI)
Inflation
3 (CPI) Consumer 8 GDP growth
Price Index
Trade balance Stock market
4
9
(deficit or surplus) Condition

Section 02 | Key drivers of currency movements
Key indicators
A closer look at some economical indicators
Central bank Policy Trade deficits or
divergence surpluses
The greenback for example is being driven When a country imports more than it
higher by policy divergence between a Fed exports, the trade balance will show a
that is still likely to tighten policy (increase deficit, which is generally considered
interest rates) in 2017 and central banks in unfavorable. For example, if the U.S. trade
the U.K., euro zone and Japan that will figures show greater imports than exports,
expand the money supply. more dollars flow out of the U.S. and the
value of the U.S. currency depreciates.
“The consequence of the ongoing
uncertainty in markets, where we see two of Similarly, if trade figures show an increase in
the big three global central banks still biased exports, dollars will flow into the United
toward additional monetary easing, and States and appreciate the value of the dollar.
ongoing uncertainty for the U.K., with From the standpoint of a national economy,
potential easing there, is that the dollar is a deficit in and of itself is not necessarily a
going to be a beneficiary,” said Jeremy bad thing. If the deficit is greater than
Stretch, London-based head of market expectations however, it can trigger a
foreign-exchange strategy at CIBC. negative price movement.
After three straight years of gains, strategists All traderswill find it
are forecasting the U.S. currency will be a
valuable to know when
world beater again in 2017, strengthening
against seven of 10 developed-world peers important economic data
by the end of the year, according to the
are scheduled for release,
median estimate in a Bloomberg survey.
That outlook is backed by the Federal particularly those that will
Reserve’s stated intent to continue raising
affect the U.S. dollar. This
interest rates while peers in the rest of the
world keep them flat or lower. is because 90% of all
currency trades are against
"This is the third big dollar rally we’ve had,"
said Marc Chandler, global head of currency the greenback, making
strategy in New York at Brown Brothers
currencies naturally
Harriman & Co. "The Obama dollar rally, I
think, was being fueled by the divergence in sensitive to U.S. economic
monetary policy."
releases.

Section 02 | Key drivers of currency movements
Key indicators
A closer look at some indicators
Stock market Even day and swing traders will find it valuable to
keep up with incoming economic reports from the
conditions
major economies.
Stock markets have a significant impact on
exchange rate movements because they are a
major place for high-volume currency
movements.
When foreign investors
There are times where sentiment in the equity move their money to a
markets will be the precursor to major moves in
particular stock (equity)
the forex market. If the stock (equity) market is
rising, investment dollars generally come in to
market, they convert
seize the opportunity. Alternatively, falling equity
markets could prompt domestic investors to sell their capital in a
their shares of local publicly traded firms to take
domestic currency and
advantage of investment opportunities abroad.
push the demand for it
To understand this further, let's imagine that the
UK economy is booming, and its stock market is higher, making the
performing well. Meanwhile, in the United States,
currency appreciate.
a lackluster economy is creating a shortage of
investment opportunities.
In this type of environment U.S. investors will feel When the equity
more inclined to sell their U.S. dollars and buy
markets are
British pounds to participate in the
outperformance of the UK economy. When they
experiencing recessions,
elect to do so, it results in the outflow of capital
from the United States and the inflow of capital however, foreign
into the United Kingdom.
investors tend to flee,
From an exchange rate perspective, this would
thus converting back to
induce a fall in the USD coupled with a rise in the
GBP, as demand for USD declines and the demand their home currency and
for GBP increases, translating into strength for the
pushing the domestic
GBP/USD currency pair.
currency down.

Section 02 | Key drivers of currency movements
Key indicators
The most overrated indicator
GDP is no longer a big deal
GDP report has also become one of least
important economic indicators on the U.S.
calendar, as it has led to some of the smallest
relative movements in the EURUSD. One possible
explanation is that GDP is released less frequently
than other data in our study (it comes out
quarterly versus monthly), but in general, the GDP
report is more prone to ambiguity and
misinterpretation.
For example, surging GDP brought about by rising
exports will be positive for the home currency;
however, if GDP growth is a result of inventory
buildup, the effect on the currency may actually
be negative. Also, a large number of the
components that comprise the GDP report are
known in advance of the release.

Section 02 | Key drivers of currency movements
Most volatile news reports
That traders should follow closely
Volatility and profits in forex are measured in pips. The bigger the volatility
the more pips and money a trader can make from a certain trade. Keep this
chart by your side and make sure to mark these reports in your calendar!
• NFP - Non Farm Payroll. Unemployment indicator, showing if U.S. employment is
growing or not.
• FOMC - decision on the U.S. interest rates.
• Trade Balance - deficit or surplus.
• CPI - Consumer Price Index. Inflation indicator.
• Retail Sales - An estimate of the total sales of goods by all retail establishments in the
U.S. for month prior to the release of the report.

Section 02 | Key drivers of currency movements
Economic indicators
What you need to know about them Part 1
What are Economic Indicators?
Economic indicators are snippets of financial and economic data published regularly by governmental
agencies and the private sector. These statistics help market observers monitor the economy's pulse - so
it's no surprise that they're followed by almost everyone in the financial markets.
With so many people poised to react to the same information, economic indicators have tremendous
potential to generate volume and move prices. It might seem like you need an advanced economics
degree to parse all this data accurately - but in fact traders need only keep a few simple guidelines in mind
when making trading decisions based on this data.
Mark Your Economic Calendars
Watching the economic calendar not only helps you consider trades around these events, it helps explain
otherwise unanticipated price actions during those periods. Consider this scenario: it's Monday morning
and the USD has been falling for 3 weeks, with many traders short USD positions as a result. On Friday,
however, U.S. employment data is scheduled to be released. If that report looks promising, traders may
start unwinding their short positions before Friday, leading to a short-term rally in USD through the week.
Know exactly when each economic indicator will be released. You can find these calendars at the New
York Federal Reserve Bank's site.
What does This Data Mean for the Economy?
You need not understand every nuance of each data release, but you should try to grasp key, large-scale
relationships between reports and what they measure in the economy. For example, you should know
which indicators measure the economy's growth (gross domestic product, or GDP) versus those that
measure inflation (PPI, CPI) or employment strength (non-farm payrolls).
Not All Economic Indicators can Move Markets
The market may pay attention to different indicators under different conditions. That focus can change
over time and from one currency to another. For example, if prices (inflation) are not a crucial issue for a
given country, but its economic growth is problematic, traders may pay less attention to inflation data
and focus on employment data or GDP reports.

Section 02 | Key drivers of currency movements
Economic indicators
What you need to know about them Part 2
Watch for the Unexpected
Often the data itself may not be as important as whether or not it falls within market expectations. If a
given report differs widely and unexpectedly from what economists and market pundits were
anticipating, market volatility and potential trading opportunities may result.
At the same time, be careful of pulling the trigger too quickly when an indicator falls outside expectations.
Each new economic indicator release contains revisions to previously released data. Read more about
this in the next section “Consensus Vs Actual numbers”.
Don't Get Caught Up in Details
While your macroeconomics professor may appreciate all the nuances of an economic report, traders
need to filter data to focus on the numbers that can inform their trading decisions.
For example, many new traders watch the headlines of the employment report, for example, assuming
that new jobs are key to economic growth. That may be true generally, but in trading terms non-farm
payroll is the figure traders watch most closely and therefore has the biggest impact on markets.
Similarly, PPI measures changes in producer prices generally - but traders tend to watch PPI excluding
food and energy as a market driver. Food and energy data tend to be much too volatile and
subject to revisions to provide an accurate reading on producer price changes.
There are Two Sides to Every Trade
Just remember that no trader's knowledge can be complete all the time. You might have a great handle
on economic data published in Europe - but there are times when data published in the U.S. or Australia
might have a surprising impact on your currency market. Doing your homework before trading any
currency can help you make better decisions.

Section 02 | Key drivers of currency movements
Economic indicators
Concensus Vs Actual numbers
Buy the rumors, sell on the news
This is a common phrase used in the forex market because often times it seems that when a news report
is released, the movement doesn’t match what the report would lead you to believe.
For example, let’s say that the U.S. unemployment rate is expected to increase. Imagine that last month
the unemployment rate was at 8.8% and the consensus for this upcoming report is 9.0%.
With a consensus at 9.0%, it means that all the big market players are anticipating a weaker U.S.
economy, and as a result, a weaker dollar.
So with this anticipation, big market players aren’t going to wait until the report is actually released to
start acting on taking a position. They will go ahead and start selling off their dollars for other currencies
before the actual number is released.
Now let’s say that the actual unemployment rate is released and as expected, it reports 9.0%.
As a retail trader, you see this and think “Okay, this is bad news for the U.S. It’s time to short the dollar!”
However, when you go to your trading platform to start selling the dollar, you see that the markets
aren’t exactly moving in the direction you thought it would. It’s actually moving up! What the heck!
Whyyyyyy??
This is because the big players have already adjusted their positions way before the news report even
came out and may now be taking profits after the run up to the news event.
Now let’s revisit this example, but this time, imagine that the actual report released an unemployment
rate of 8.0%. The market players thought the unemployment rate would rise to 9.0% because of the
consensus, but instead the report showed that the rate actually decreased, showing strength for the
dollar.
What you would see on your charts would be a huge dollar rally across the board because the big
market players didn’t expect this to happen. Now that the report is released and it says something
totally different from what they had anticipated, they are all trying to adjust their positions as fast as
possible.
This would also happen if the actual report released an unemployment rate of 10.0%. The only
difference would be that instead of the dollar rallying, it would drop like a rock!
Since the market consensus was 9.0% but the actual report showed a bigger 10.0% unemployment rate,
the big players would sell off more of their dollars because the U.S. looks a lot weaker now than when
the forecasts were first released.
It’s important to keep track of the market consensus and the actual numbers, you can better gauge
which news reports will actually cause the market to move and in what direction.
Reference: babybips

Section 02 | Key drivers of currency movements
How Geo-politics affect currency rates
Wars Natural Political Elections
disasters unrest
About elections and Armed conflicts lead to
continuity depreciation
A surprise, strong showing for Sanders An impending war tends to negatively affect
"would have upset markets" by reducing the major currencies. Instability in the world
likelihood of Clinton becoming the next market prods investors to pull out of their
president, Lim Say Boon, chief investment financial positions, leading to currency
officer at DBS Bank Ltd. in Singapore, wrote depreciation.
in a report. The Super Tuesday results are
being seen as "an outcome for continuity
over the disruption threatened by Trump
and Sanders," he said. You must remember
that investors hate uncertainty!
Dollar gains as new
Presidents get elected
Dollar gains as Reagan cuts taxes & Fed
raises interest rates. Similar effects have
occured with Clinton and Obama. For Trump
the upward trend was also there due to his
promise to lower taxes and increase
government spending on infrastrucure.

Section 02 | Key drivers of currency movements
Market psychology
The golden rule of economic indicators
The currency rates often start moving even before the actual data
comes out due to forecasts and market sentiment!
Sentiment analysis is a kind of FX analysis that concentrates on indicating and consequently measuring
the overall psychological and emotional state of all participants of the foreign exchange market. This
kind of Forex analysis strives to quantify what percentage of FX market participants are bullish or
bearish, in other words being optimistic or pessimistic.
As already mentioned in the previous section“Concensus Vs Actual numbers” - Markets start moving
from expectations and forecasts that are also available in the economic calendars. If the forecast
promised a positive growth and the actual data comes out even better than forecasted, it amplifies the
rise of the currency even more.
Actual > Forecast = Good for currency
If the actual data comes out worse than expected, it creates a strong downward pressure on the
currency. Here is the rule to remember with financial reports:

$
¤
SECTION 03
FOREX TIMING

Section 03 | Forex timing
The importance of timing
Top 3 events when maximum volatility happens:
Why timing is important 1. Overlap between two
The Foreign Exchange market operates 24 sessions
hours a day, making it nearly impossible
Generally, whenever there is an overlap in
for a single trader to track every market
the market e.g Japan/London and
movement and respond immediately at
London/Newyork Session, there is always an
all times.
amount of volatility that accompanies such
period. For instance, every morning during
Timing is everything in currency trading. In
London Open session. Euro pairs are active
order to devise an effective and
and if you have a good strategy, you could
time-efficient investment strategy, it is
get 20-30 pips.
important to understand how much
liquidity there is around the clock to
maximize the number of trading 2. News Release
opportunities during a trader's own
Fundamentals drive the market. During
market hours.
News Release, volatility is experienced and
some pairs could move over 100 pips
Besides liquidity, a currency pair's trading
depending on the type of news. For example
range is also heavily dependent on
Non-Farm Payroll is the most volatile news
geographical location and macroeconomic
release and dollar based currency pairs
factors.
could move hundreds of pips in seconds.
However, trading news is risky if you are not
Knowing what time of day a currency pair
knowledgeable about it.
has the highest or narrowest trading
volatility will undoubtedly help traders
improve their investment utility due to 3. Central Bank
better capital allocation.
Govenor's Speech
Speeches from these guys could make pairs
High volatility offers lucrative profit
go hundred's of pips and even change
potentials to short-term traders. Lower
market sentiment with effects lasting into
volatility (under 80 pips per day) is better
months. However, its risky to trade these
for risk-averse traders, because there are
speeches except you are subscribed to some
less iregular market movements caused by
feed/signal service and get the news before
aggressive intraday speculation.
others.

Section 03 | Forex timing
What Are the Best Times to Trade Forex
We strongly advice you to avoid all resources that traders can then purchase currencies from
tell you Forex market is a fairy-tale place where different continents. The Forex market of London
you can trade 24/7! The timing in forex trading is is usually the most active as it involves many
crucial! countries of the European Union. The US market
comes next, so the time when the London session
The Forex market is open 24 hours a day, but it is intersects with the US session usually provides the
not active all this time! In Forex trading money is biggest returns. Expert traders consider 10 AM to
made when the market is active (when traders are be the best time as this is the period when the
bidding on the prices) so it is crucial for you to London market is preparing to close the trades
learn about the most productive hours of the day and traders are getting ready to move to US
and of the week for trading the forex! market. This creates big swings in currency prices
thus opening great opportunities for profit.
There are three major trading sessions of the Forex
market: London, US and Tokyo session. The
busiest times are when the sessions overlap as
The best time of the day to trade forex
Download Forex Hero app to see
$ the hours in your time zone!
€
EST time
22:00 23:00 24:00 01:00 02:00 03:00 04:00 05:00 06:00 07:00 08:00 09:00 10:00 11:00 12:00 13:00 14:00 15:00 16:00 17:00 18:00 19:00 20:00 21:00
London
New York
Sidney
Tokio
The best time of the week to trade forex
According to research, the biggest movement in the four major currency pairs (EUR/USD, GBP/USD,
USD/JPY, USD/CHF) is observed on Tuesdays and Wednesdays. Fridays are busy as well, but only until
12:00 PM and during the second half of the day the movements can be very unpredictable.
Best time
MON TUE WED THU FRI SAT SUN

Section 03 | Forex timing
When NOT to trade forex
Save your money and keep your nerves by not trading at the wrong time.
While it is crucial to understand when is the best time to analyze the charts
and make the bids, it is equally important to know when NOT to open
positions.
An inactive (often called “thin”) market offers smaller movements of rates, thus smaller potential profits.
A thin market also comes with higher commissions (spreads) for each trade due to the decreased
liquidity. In simple words: if you want to sell a currency, it is harder to find potential buyers, so the
broker or bank must increase the commission as it takes a risk of not finding a buyer so quickly.
A good example of chaotic trading is shortly before, during and shortly after important news events. In
these times of uncertainty, the currency rates can swing wildly and unpredictably, thus messing up
trading by creating execution lags, triggering stop-loss orders, etc.
So here are some examples of when you should at least be careful when trading:
Friday afternoon & Primetime TV
6
1 weekends events
Trading session
2 closing time 7 Asian sessions
Important news When angry or
3 8
events frustrated
4 Overnight
Bank holidays 9
5 End of December If you want to know the WHY behind these
points - download the forex hero app here.

Section 03 | Forex timing
When & why do spreads tighten
Why do spreads widen/tighten?
In a well-functioning financial market, where prices are dictated by various market participants (and not
by a single entity/market maker), instruments do not have fixed bid/ask spreads. Usually, the higher the
liquidity, the lower the volatility, and therefore the tighter the spread (Spread is like a commission that
you pay for the trade).
So highly liquid currency majors such as EUR/USD and USD/JPY have tighter spreads than exotic pairs
such as USD/RUB or USD/ZAR.
However, even major pairs can experience wider than normal spreads during volatile periods, such as
interest rates announcements, GDP reports, unemployment figures, to name a few examples. There
will also be wider spreads during off market hours, when there is only a fraction of the participants in
the market, so the liquidity is lower. This can be seen when the markets open for the Asian
session, at 21:00 GMT Sunday, for example.
This widening occurs typically around news announcements or off-market hours. Most forex
brokers allow you to trade all weekend, but spreads will be significantly wider during weekends
when liquidity is almost non-existent.
Dealing desk or market making brokers are going to widen their spreads coming into economic
announcements to offset the risk they take on by filling orders. Unfortunately, banks do the same thing,
so an average forex broker could be better, but only marginally.
What happens before or during important
announcements.
The volatility jumps before important anouncements and the drastic movements can hit the
stop-losses, resulting in a lost trade and investment.
wild swings
based on
rumours etc. Fed announcement
you go
long on
eur/usd
stop-loss level

Section 03 | Forex timing
How to trade during the news events
A pro trader about hitting stop loss when spreads widen
This is not so much of a problem for me as I don't use stops for exits, just emergency measure that
generally never gets hit. So I generally close the position or wait out the increased spread (unless it is
really pumping).
If you do use stops for exits, just be aware of your stop size as you will have to widen it just before
news announcement if you don't want to get taken out at the exact place you had predicted would
serve as S/R (hence your stop placement just below this level).
This should not be a problem if you are trading the higher time frames as your stop will probably be
quite large and so increasing it by 5 or 10 pips probably won't be too significant risk increase (better yet -
factor in the widened spread when you calculate your position size as you know that if the trade works
out you will be holding for a few days or more, in which time there will be anouncements) . If you can't
be at your computer when the news anuncement hits, I would suggest leaving your stop wider
for the periods that you can't manage the trade (unless there are no announcements over that
period).
If you are trading lower time frames however, your stops will inevitably be smaller and the increase in
stop size may substantially increase your risk. In this case, you may have to decide to close the
position before the anouncment or close enough of the position so that the increased stop will
equal the same loss as the originally intended loss. But make no mistake - you will have to widen
your stop. The spread will get you. Even if the announcement is in your favour, price generally
whips up and down at least a few pips before taking direction. If your stop is anywhere near price
just prior to news, chances are you will be taken out not matter what the result. Just be aware of the
anouncement times and factor this in when deciding wether or not to take a trade.
Real-life example of a killed stop-loss order due to the volatilty of a news event

$
¤
SECTION 04
TIME FRAMES

Section 04 | Time frames
Multiple time frame analysis
The market can be analysed in several time frames: 10 minutes, hours, days, weeks. It may often
seem that these indicators are contradictory. However, they aren’t, you just need to combine
their readings. Analyses of longer time periods show tendencies, ignoring accidental changes,
whereas daily, hourly ir minute graphs help in choosing the moment to open and close
positions.
Multiple time frame analysis
Example
time
X
Let us look at a daily graph. What
do most traders do when they
1600
see such a curve? They assume
that it’s the beginning of a
downward trend and bid on the
drop of the currency exchange
1550
rate. And they’re wrong!
1500
3 10 17 24
November
time
X
1900
Now let’s look at the same
currency over a longer period of
time.
1600
We see that the daily shift was
inconsequential to the long-term
tendency as it is upward and not
1300
the other way around.
Aug Sep Okt Nov Dec
Conclusion
For successful and precise market analysis, you must use at least 2-3 time frames!

Section 04 | Time frames
Time frame choice of pros
The shortest time frame that traders should start looking
at when their trading day starts are daily charts, even if
you are trading on a 5-minute time frame!
The most common form of multiple time frame analysis is to use daily charts to identify the overall trend
and then use the hourly charts to determine specific entry levels.
1 DAY 1HOUR
Is it possible to analyze and trade forex using a single
time frame?
It’s possible, but it requires a very good amount of skill and practice.
As a matter of principle, all good traders I know use 2–3 time frames (3 being the best) spaced enough so
that each timeframe above encompasses 4–8 bars from the lower time frame. In example: Month =>
Week => Day, Day => 6h => 1h or Day => 4h => 1h / 30m and so on.
Those who can perform an analysis on one time frame are those who have got a lot of “screen time” and
became trained at understanding the long term price motions by looking at a lower time frame chart.
It’s plenty possible but personally it took me 2 years to learn that. Even then, I prefer to switch to the
other time frames to be really sure about what to do.

$
¤
SECTION 05
FUNDAMENTAL
& TECHNICAL ANALYSIS

Section 05 | Fundamental & technical analysis
Fundamental & Tecnhical analysis
What is Fundamental Analysis
Fundamental analysis studies the core underlying elements that influence the economy of a particular
entity, like a stock or currency. It attempts to predict price action and trends by analyzing economic
indicators, government policy, societal and other factors within a business cycle framework.
If you think of the markets as a big clock, fundamentals are the gears and springs that move the hands
around the face. Anyone can tell you what time it is now, but the fundamentalist knows about the inner
workings that move the clock's hands towards times (or prices) in the future.
What is Technical Analysis
Unlike fundamental analysis, technical analysis focuses on the study of price movements. Technical
analysts use historical currency data to forecast the direction of future prices. The underlying belief
behind technical analysis is that all current market information is already reflected in the price of that
currency; therefore, studying price action is all that is required to make informed trading decisions. In a
nutshell, technical analysis assumes that history will repeat itself.
Beware of "Analysis Paralysis"
Forecasting models are both art and science, with so many different approaches that traders can get
overloaded. It can be tough to decide when you know enough to pull the trigger on a trade with
confidence. Many traders switch to technical analysis at this point to test their hunches and see when
price patterns suggest an entry.
Look for Fundamental Drivers First
The fundamentals include everything that makes a country and its currency tick. From interest rates and
central bank policy to natural disasters, the fundamentals are a dynamic mix of distinct plans, erratic
behaviors and unforeseen events.

Section 05 | Fundamental & technical analysis
Which analysis is better?
No one will ever win the age-long battle
between technical and fundamental
analysis.
Prior to the mid-1980s, fundamental traders
dominated the FX market. However, with the
advent of new technologies, the influence of
technical trading on the FX market has
increased significantly.
Nowadays the best strategies tend to be
the ones that combine both fundamental
and technical analysis.
Textbook perfect technical formations have
failed too often because of major
fundamental news and events like U.S.
nonfarm payrolls. Most individual traders will start trading with
technical analysis because for some it is
But trading on fundamentals alone can also easier to understand and does not require
be risky. There will oftentimes be sharp hours of news and fact checking.
gyrations in the price of currency on a day
when there are no news or economic Technical analysts can also follow many
reports. currencies and markets at one time, whereas
fundamental analysts tend to focus on a few
This suggests that the price action is driven pairs due to the overwhelming amount of
by nothing more than flows, sentiment, and data in the market.
pattern formations.
Nonetheless, technical analysis works well
Therefore, it is very important for technical because the currency market tends to
traders to be aware of the key economic data develop strong trends. Once technical
or events that are scheduled for release, and, analysis is mastered, it can be applied with
in turn, for fundamental traders to be aware equal ease to any time frame or currency
of important technical levels that the general traded.
market may be focusing on.
However, as we already noted - it is
important to take both strategies into
consideration, as fundamental analysis can
trigger technical movements such as
breakouts or reversal in trends. Technical
analysis, on the other hand, can also explain
moves that fundamentals cannot, especially
in quiet markets, causing resistance in trends
or unexplainable movements.

Section 05 | Fundamental & technical analysis
How pros evaluate the market
Commodity trader Wang relies on simple supply & demand
Wang Bing’s Guli Trend Aggressive Strategy fund has made a 2,100% profit from
smart commodity trading.
While many of Wang’s peers have embraced computer-driven strategies in an
attempt to gain an edge, the former iron-ore importer says his trades are
dictated by old-fashioned analysis of supply and demand. Wang, who started
trading futures in 2008, said he supplements his fundamental analysis of
commodities supply and demand with simple forms of technical analysis. One
of his favorite measures is the 30-day moving average. When prices move
above that level, he’s more inclined to bet on gains.
Example Responds to speculation
Wang had recently been betting on higher commodity prices, encouraged by
signs that President Xi Jinping’s government would take measures to tackle
oversupply. But he closed out the last of those positions on Wednesday,
responding to local speculation that producers of coke and coking coal will be
allowed to ramp up production.

$
¤
SECTION 06
CURRENCIES

Section 06 | Currencies
Currency nicknames
Greenback or Buck - U.S. Dollar
Sterling - British Pound
Cable - British Pound / U.S. Dollar pair
Single currency or Fiber - Euro
Swissy - Swiss Franc
Loonie - Canadian Dollar
Aussie or Ozzie - Australian Dollar
Kiwi - New Zealand Dollar
Barnie - U.S. Dollar / British Pound pair
Betty - Euro / Russian Rubble
Guppy or Gopher - British Pound / Japanese Yen pair
Euppy (pronounced Yuppy) - Euro / Japanese Yen pair
Ninja - U.S. Dollar / Japanese Yen pair
Chunnel - Euro / British Pound pair

Section 06 | Currencies
Which currencies should I trade?
Newer traders should start with following only the four major currency
pairs, which are the EUR/USD, USD/JPY, USD/CHF and the GBP/USD, and
then gradually add the AUD/USD, USD/CAD and NZD/USD, followed by the
non-dollar pairs.
1 EUR/USD
2 USD/JPY beginners should
start with these!
3 GBP/USD
4 USD/CHF
Then
AUD/USD USD/CAD
Then
NZD/USD
Then
Non-dollar pairs

Section 06 | Currencies
Commodity currencies
The commodity currencies are currencies
from countries that possess large
quantities of commodities or other
natural resources.
Natural resources often constitute the majority of
the countries' exports, and the strength of the
economy (its currency) can be highly dependent on
the prices of these natural resources. These
correlations makes them easier to trade.
rub
Ruble <> Brent crude oil
The free-floating ruble follows the Brent Here is why there is such a dependancy:
price in almost-perfect lockstep. Russian GDP Vs Oil price in ruble
RUB/USD Brent (oil) price Russian nGDP Oil price in ruble

Section 06 | Currencies
Commodity currencies
$ $
When Gold Goes Up, the Dollar gains 5% > Oil
USD Often Goes Down falls 10-25%
(and Vice Versa)
Oil is particularly leveraged to the dollar and
may fall 10 percent to 25 percent if the
Historically, gold is a "safe haven" - a
currency gains 5 percent, Morgan Stanley
country-neutral investment and an
analysts including Adam Longson said in a
alternative to the world's other reserve
research note dated Jan. 11, 2016.
currency, the U.S. dollar. That means gold
prices tend to have an inverse relationship to
the USD, offering several ways for currency
traders to take advantage of that
relationship.
For example, if gold breaks an important
price level, you'd expect gold to move
higher. With this in mind, you might sell
dollars and buy Euros, for example, as a
proxy for higher gold prices.
$ CAD AUD
USD/CAD <> Oil prices Rising Gold Prices boost
AUD and CAD
Canada is considered the 2nd largest
exporter of oil in the world, second only to Australia is the world's third largest exporter
Saudi Arabia, hence its currency is reliant on of gold, and Canada is the third largest
this commodity. It also supplies the world’s producer worldwide. These two major
biggest oil consumer – the United States. currencies tend to strengthen as gold prices
Because the US is largely dependent on oil, rise. You might consider going long these
the rise and fall of the commodity will have currencies when gold is increasing in value,
an effect not only on the Canadian Dollar but or trade your GBP or JPY for these currencies
also on the US Dollar – the higher the price of when gold is on the rise.
oil, the higher benefits Canada gets, and the
more disadvantaged the US becomes. In
currency exchange, the higher the oil prices
are, the lower the USD/CAD value will be.

$
¤
SECTION 07
HOW FOREX
INFLUENCES BUSINESS

Section 07 | How forex influences business
Why one should monitor the EURUSD
1% move in the EURUSD
rate reduces profits by
EUR$7 million!
Monitoring exchange rates is essential to
predicting earnings and corporate
profitability.
Throughout 2003 and 2004, European
manufacturers complained extensively
about the rapid rise in the euro and the
weakness in the U.S. dollar.
The main reason for the dollar's selloff at the
time was the country's rapidly growing trade
and budget deficits. This caused the EURUSD
exchange rate to surge, which took a
significant toll on the profitability of
European corporations because a higher
exchange rate makes the goods of European
exporters more expensive to U.S. consumers.
In 2003, inadequate hedging shaved
approximately EUR$1 billion euros from
Volkswagen's profits, while DSM, a Dutch
chemicals group, warned that a 1% move
in the EURUSD rate would reduce profits
by EUR$7 million to EUR$11 million.
Unfortunately, inadequate hedging is still a
reality in Europe, which makes monitoring
the EURUSD exchange rate even more
important in forecasting the earnings and
profitability of European exporters.*
*Day Trading and Swing Trading the Currency Market: Technical and Fundamental Strategies to Profit from Market Moves (Wiley Trading) by Kathy Lien.

Section 07 | How forex influences business
Real-world business stories
to help you understand how forex market works
As ruble loses half its
How Australians lost
value, russians make
their farms in the forex
quick money by
re-exporting cars In the early 1980s, Australian farmers
desperate for finance plunged into the forex
Thanks to the ruble’s depreciation, prices of market, snapping up low-interest loans
cars sold in Russia turned out to be cheaper denominated in Swiss francs.
than on foreign markets.
But the loans, essentially a bet on the Aussie
The price difference in Russia and abroad dollar remaining strong against the franc,
made the re-export of cars from Russia went horribly wrong when the dollar
lucrative. plunged in 1985 and 1986, costing some
borrowers their farms.
Seizing on currency disparities, Russians
made quick money by re-exporting the
vehicles, which got so cheap in ruble
terms that selling them back - sometimes
to the same country that manufactured
them in the first place - became a way to
make a good profit.

Section 07 | How forex influences business
Real-world business stories
to help you understand how forex market works
When yuan is weakening Russian gem polisher
chinese citizens are benefits from weak
buying properties rubble
abroad
Maxim Shkadov, who runs Kristall, Russia’s
Motivated by a weakening yuan, surging biggest gem polisher and a major exporter,
domestic housing costs and the desire to says the weak ruble - it’s lost half of its value
secure offshore footholds, Chinese citizens since oil began to slide in 2014 - slashed his
are snapping up overseas homes at an local costs in dollar terms.
accelerating pace.
“We don’t have any problems getting
They’re also venturing further afield than loans, because banks have plenty of cash
ever before, spreading beyond the likes of and can’t find anywhere to put it,” he says.
Sydney and Vancouver to lower-priced
markets including Houston, Thailand’s But demand for his diamonds is weak, so
Pattaya Beach and Malaysia’s Johor Bahru. he’s paying down debt, not adding to it,
Shkadov says.
They are hoping to buy before the yuan
weakens any further. Expectations are
mounting for a higher Fed rate target,
boosting the appeal of holding dollars.

Section 07 | How forex influences business
Real-world stories
to help you understand how forex market works
How China became the
biggest investor in the
U.S.
Chinese Yuan Renminbi (RMB) was
pegged to the U.S. dollar. In the 1980s, the
RMB was devalued to promote growth in
China's economy, and between 1997 and
2005 the People's Bank of China artificially
maintained a USDRMB rate of 8.27.
At the time, it received significant criticism
because keeping the peg meant that the
Chinese government would artificially
weaken its currency to make Chinese goods
more competitive.
To maintain the band, the Chinese
government had to sell the yuan and buy
U.S. dollars each time their currency
appreciated above the band's upper limit.
These dollars were then used to purchase
U.S. Treasuries, and this practice turned
China into the world's largest holder of
U.S. Treasuries.

$
¤
SECTION 08
RISK
MANAGEMENT

Section 08 | Risk management
Why traders lose money
Most traders lose money simply because they have no understanding or
place no importance in risk management. Risk management involves
essentially knowing how much you are willing to risk and how much you
are looking to gain. Without a sense of risk management, most traders
simply hold on to losing positions for an extremely long amount of time,
but take profits on winning positions prematurely. There are a few key
guidelines that every trader, regardless of their strategy or what they are
trading, should keep in mind.
Risk-reward ratio Stop-loss orders
Traders should look to establish a
Traders should also employ stop-loss orders
risk-reward ratio for every trade they place.
as a way of specifying the maximum loss
In other words, they should have an idea of
they are willing to accept. By using stop-loss
how much they are willing to lose, and how
orders, traders can avoid the common
much they are looking to gain. Generally, the
predicament of being in a scenario where
risk-reward ratio should be at least 1:2, if not
they have many winning trades but a single
more. Having a solid risk-reward ratio can
loss large enough to eliminate any trace of
prevent traders from entering positions that
profitability in the account.
ultimately are not worth the risk.
Trailing stops to lock in profits are
particularly useful. A good habit of more
Pros recommend 1:2 successful traders is to employ the rule of
moving your stop to break even as soon as
risk-reward ratio, and
your position has profited by the same
not risking more than amount that you initially risked through the
stop order. At the same time, some traders
2% of your equity on any may also choose to close a portion of their
position.
single trade.

Section 08 | Risk management
10 tips from the pros
1 Start gradually 6 Don’t stop the profit
Don’t open many positions at the same An essential mistake beginners make is
time. It’s better to choose fewer positions, closing the transaction too soon and thus
but weigh each of them carefully. not taking advantage of the full profit
potential. Trends last longer than they
might seem at first!
2 Stop-Loss order 7 Don’t play against
People often forget to limit their loss and the trend
therefore have to step out of the game
Transactions against a trend usually result
very soon. With the Stop-Loss Order, you
in loss. Wait for a beneficial tendency and
will be able to control the situation even if
then make your move!
the rates change unexpectedly.
3 Rule of 1/6 8 If in doubt, follow
Specialists advise against risking more the leader
than 1/6 of your free capital when you
If you still aren’t confident about your
aren’t completely confident.
decisions, choose a platform that lets you
follow leaders and copy their transactions.
4 Stick to the plan 9 Trends have momentum
Each good trader has their own plan, and Beginners often don’t know that when
the best traders make an effort to hold trends start, they develop quickly because
onto it. Those who have the time, make they are increased by the number of
daily transactions, others choose traders following them. Use trends in your
long-term strategies. Keep it steady! favour!
5 Multiple time frames 10 Close the unsuccessful
Differentiate the time frames of analysis. Don’t hold unsuccessful positions open for
Weekly graphs are used to observe trends a long time. Experience shows that it’s
while daily and hourly graphs are best best to close them early and move on to
used to observe the best time to open and others.
close positions.

An essential mistake beginners make is
closing the transaction too soon and thus
not taking advantage of the full profit
potential. Trends last longer than they
might seem at first!
$
¤
SECTION 08
TOOLS USED
BY PRO TRADERS
Beginners often don’t know that when
trends start, they develop quickly because
they are increased by the number of
traders following them. Use trends in your
favour!

Tools for analysis and trading
1
3
You are serious about becoming a forex trader. Do you know which tools to
use? Here are the three most popular tools:
1. Ransquawk
£20/month - £150/month
Live 24/7 news (text & audio) covering all major
2
pairs and crosses.
https://ransquawk.com/
2. eSignal
$47/month - $309/month
Stock Charting Software, Best Day Trading
Platform.
http://www.esignal.com/
3. Oanda news
Free
Forex market commentary and analysis,
statistics and more.
https://fxtrade.oanda.com/analysis/news/

References
1. Trading in the Zone: Master the Market with Confidence, Discipline, and a Winning Attitude. By Mark Douglas.
2. Japanese Candlestick Charting Techniques, Second Edition. By Steve Nison.
3. Currency Trading and Intermarket Analysis: How to Profit from the Shifting Currents in Global Markets. By
Ashraf Laïdi.
4. Trading for a Living: Psychology, Trading Tactics, Money Management. By Alexander Elder.
5. The Disciplined Trader: Developing Winning Attitudes. By Mark Douglas
6. Naked Forex: High-Probability Techniques for Trading Without Indicators. By Alex Nekritin.
7. Trading Price Action Trends: Technical Analysis of Price Charts Bar by Bar for the Serious Trader. By Al Brooks.
8. Day Trading and Swing Trading the Currency Market: Technical and Fundamental Strategies to Profit from
Market Moves (Wiley Trading) by Kathy Lien.
9. Forex For Ambitious Beginners: A Guide to Successful Currency Trading. By Jelle Peters.
10. The 10 Essentials of Forex Trading: The Rules for Turning Trading Patterns Into Profit. By Jared Martinez.
11. Millionaire Traders: How Everyday People Are Beating Wall Street at Its Own Game. By Kathy Lien, Boris
Schlossberg.
12. 7 Winning Strategies For Trading Forex: Real and actionable techniques for profiting from the currency
markets. By Grace Cheng.
13. Forex Patterns and Probabilities: Trading Strategies for Trending and Range-Bound Markets. By Ed Ponsi.
14. https://www.tradeking.com/forex/economic_indicators.htm
15.http://www.babypips.com/school/undergraduate/freshman-year/trading-the-news/trading-with-a-directiona
l-bias.html

Congratulations
and thanks for
reading!
To take your skills to the next level
download the free learning app here.
$
¤ No real money needed. No risk involved.

