

C H A P T E R
1
Historical
Background
The Historical Development and
Modern Structure of Foreign
Exchange
While the history of foreign exchange is almost as long as civilization itself,
one need only go back as far as 1944 to unearth the foundation of the modern
structure of foreign exchange. Having witnessed the Great Depression and
two world wars, global leaders were naturally anxious to bring about
stability, and the creation of a new economic and financial system was an
important step toward that goal.
With that in mind, the Bretton Woods Accord was drafted and signed by all
44 members of the Allied Nations. (It was later acceded to by Japan,
Germany, and the rest of the defeated Axis Powers.) As the United States had
already begun to establish itself as the world’s preeminent economic power,
it was decided that the US dollar would become the backbone of the new
system of foreign exchange. The dollar was pegged to gold (at an initial price
of $35/ounce), and all other currencies were in turn pegged to the US dollar.
The world’s central banks were then tasked with buying and selling dollars
so as to limit their respective currencies from fluctuating by more than 1% in
either direction.

2 Chapter 1 | Historical Background
In order to foster cooperation and stability, the Bretton Woods Accord also
mandated the creation of the International Monetary Fund (IMF) and the
precursor to the World Bank. The IMF was charged directly with carrying
out a radical new financial system. Basically, members of the IMF were
required to make subscription payments (in the form of gold and domestic
currency) in proportion to their economic size. In return, they were granted
voting rights, also in proportion to the size of their economies. As exchange
rates naturally fluctuate in accordance with changing patterns in trade and
economic growth, the IMF was endowed with the power to make loans to
central banks, for the purpose of maintaining exchange rate stability. The
World Bank, meanwhile, was charged with making loans to countries that
were struggling economically and using its capital base to promote
reconstruction and development in the wake of the devastation caused by the
Second World War.
Bretton Woods II
Alas, the Bretton Woods system proved to be untenable. Due to an economic
rebalancing (namely, the rapid post-war recovery of Germany and Japan), it
became increasingly difficult to maintain the exchange rate pegs to the US
dollar. This was further complicated by differing rates of inflation, and the
swinging of the US trade balance from surplus to deficit. In 1968, the IMF
tried to head off the impending crisis by creating so-called Special Drawing
Rights (SDRs), a supranational currency that would be denominated in gold
and a basket of constituent currencies. Member countries were automatically
allocated SDRs in proportion to their subscriptions to the IMF, and could use
them to stabilize their currencies in lieu of buying and selling US dollars.
Only a few years later, however, it was already apparent that this system had
failed to address the massive imbalances, at the heart of which was the
overvaluation of the US dollar relative to the price of gold. Then-President
Richard Nixon responded by raising the price of gold (devaluing the US
dollar) and imposing import controls designed to prevent further capital
flight. Most importantly, he limited its convertibility, so that US dollars
could no longer be exchanged directly for gold. This was a major historical
development, as there was now nothing more than faith in the US
government and a written declaration on the currency bills that guaranteed
the worth of the US dollar.

Forex for Beginners 3
As President Nixon did little to rein in spending on the Vietnam War and
domestic social programs, however, the glut of dollars continued to expand
inexorably. It soon became impossible to maintain a currency peg at any
level. In 1973, the original Bretton Woods system was officially terminated,
and was replaced by the so-called Bretton Woods II system. In this new
system, currencies fluctuate freely against one another in accordance with
market forces. Within a few years, all major currencies were nominally
floating (not explicitly pegged to the US dollar). This marked the beginning
of the fiat currency era, as well as a bold experiment that some com-
mentators argue has not yet run its course!
That’s not to say that informal currency pegging has died out completely.
The Bank of England continued fixing the British pound to the deutsche
mark until 1992, when speculators, led by hedge fund investor George Soros,
famously “broke the bank” and forced it to dismantle the peg. Meanwhile,
oil-exporting countries have persisted in pegging their currencies to the US
dollar to this day, since the price of oil is also denominated in US dollars.
Countries throughout the developing world—namely China—also fix their
currencies to the dollar and/or euro. And speaking of the euro, it is both the
best-known and most recent example of currency pegging.
Overall, however, the fiat currency system remains the order of the day,
despite the fact that, generally speaking, it hasn’t really engendered stability.
On the contrary, the last four decades have seen their share of collapse. More
than 100 countries—mostly in Africa and Latin America—have defaulted on
their sovereign debt obligations.1 The most famous cases involved Argentina,
Brazil, Mexico, and Russia, all of which were accompanied by (separate)
currency crises. There was stagflation in the 1970s, brought about by rising
oil prices and an economic recession, and a proportional devaluation of the
US dollar. The late 1990s saw the Southeast Asian financial crisis and the
consequent collapse of half a dozen regional economies, their financial
markets, and their currencies. The financial crisis that lasted roughly from
2008 to 2011, meanwhile, witnessed similar instability and some of the
largest forex fluctuations ever recorded. Iceland defaulted on its debt, and the
Icelandic krona collapsed. And in almost every case, the IMF has been there
1 Eduardo Borensztein and Ugo Panizza, “The Costs of Sovereign Default,” (IMF
working paper, International Monetary Fund, October 2008),
www.imf.org/external/pubs/ft
/wp/2008/wp08238.pdf.

4 Chapter 1 | Historical Background
to mop up the mess with (often controversial) counsel and loans, with the
effect that most currency crises have been short-lived.
In the aftermath of every crisis comes the inevitable debate over whether the
former economic system should be revived, and the financial crisis of
2008–2011 has been no exception to that rule. Economic conservatives argue
that the US dollar will be ruined by the high level of US debt, and they
proffer the reinstatement of the gold peg as the only real solution. Fiat
currencies have given unlimited power to government and no check on their
ability to print unlimited amounts of money. Critics of the euro, meanwhile,
insist that the currency union never made sense and that fiscal and economic
discrepancies will soon render it extinct.
In addition, the record spikes in volatility that accompanied the financial
crisis of 2008 to 2011 have triggered the predictable calls for a cap on
speculation. Policymakers have invoked the so-called Tobin Tax, which
would levy a nominal fee on all forex trades, and use the proceeds to help
central banks fend off speculative attacks on their currencies.
The IMF has most recently begun to encourage the use of capital controls as
a tool to prevent wild oscillations in exchange rates. SDRs have also been
expanded (to more than $300 billion) and redistributed (in accordance with
Figure 1-1), but their use remains subject to practical complications. Besides,
given that they are still denominated in other currencies, the role of SDRs is
as much political as it is financial. It should come as no surprise that its
biggest proponents are those countries that in general have strained relations
with the United States.

Forex for Beginners 5
Figure 1-1. Allocation of IMF Special Drawing Rights (SDRs)
In short, the so-called Bretton Woods II system will probably remain in
effect for the continued future. There may be further currency consolidation
(within Asia and/or Africa), but no country is likely to unilaterally reinstate
the gold standard. Barring any unforeseen developments, currencies will
continue to fluctuate against each other in accordance with market forces.

6 Chapter 1 | Historical Background
Market Structure
In its modern form, the forex market closely resembles many of the other
financial markets, with a few critical exceptions. Unlike the markets for other
securities, forex trading is geographically decentralized. According to the
Bank for International Settlements (BIS), the United Kingdom, United
States, and Japan are the three largest trading centers, followed by
Switzerland, Singapore, Hong Kong, Australia, France, Denmark and
Germany. Together, these ten countries account for more than 90% of forex
volume. Ironically, the rise in electronic trading (which would seem to render
geography irrelevant) has spurred the creation of tight trading clusters. This
has caused volume to become ever more concentrated in a handful of cities,
namely London and New York City (Figure 1-2).
Figure 1-2. Geographical distribution of forex trading
While countries should enjoy a natural monopoly (or a comparative
advantage) in the exchange of their own currencies, trades are typically
routed to the nearest liquid trading center in order to optimize the speed of
execution. In other words, while it takes less than a second for an order to be
transmitted electronically from San Francisco to New York, it takes even less

Forex for Beginners 7
time for an order to be transmitted from 49th Street to 42nd Street in New
York. For certain traders, shaving one millisecond off of their execution time
can mean the difference between profit and loss.
Over-the-Counter Market
The second distinction between the forex market and other financial markets
is that there is no centralized exchange through which all currencies are
traded. (There is an exception to this rule, in the form of certain forex
derivatives, which will be examined in greater detail in Chapter 2.) Instead,
currencies are exchanged over-the-counter (OTC), which is to say that
transactions are executed directly between two parties. These two parties, for
example, might be an individual and a bank, or two individuals, or two
banks. When one party wants to place a trade, it must contact a broker or a
dealer. The former serves its customers by matching up buyers and sellers,
while the latter will fill orders by taking the opposite side of a trade. (This
distinction is not mutually exclusive, as some firms will switch roles as it
suits them.)
Since currencies are always bought in pairs (one currency against one other
currency) they must always be sold in pairs. In other words, the buyer and
seller must necessarily be interested in taking opposing positions. For
example, if a seller is interested in closing out a long position in the US
dollar relative to the euro, the buyer must be interested in opening a long
position in the euro against the US dollar. As with any type of financial
securities trade, it is the job of the broker to sort through all of these nuances.
The broker must amalgamate quotes from multiple sources and combine the
best bid (the price at which currency can be sold) with the best ask (the price
at which currency can be bought), and present the resulting spread to
customers (Table 1-1).

8 Chapter 1 | Historical Background
Table 1-1. Broker Amalgamation of Bid/Ask Spreads
Counterparty Bid Price Bid Amount Offer Price Offer Amount
JP Morgan 1.3502 $5.0 million 1.3505 $10.0 million
APK Hedge Fund 1.3499 $3.0 million 1.3506 $20.0 million
Joe Trader 1.3501 $1.2 million 1.3504 $7.0 million
Bank of America 1.3502 $20.0 million 1.3505 $3.8 million
Having received the separate quotes in Table 1-1, the broker would present
the 1.3502 ($25 million) – 1.3504 ($7 million) to the customer, which
represents a combination of the best bid and ask prices. (These days, this job
is mostly done automatically by computers, but the principle is the same as if
it were being done by hand.) Ultimately, if the seller is willing to accept a
price at or below the buyer’s offer, the trade will clear. The broker will earn a
profit by charging a transaction fee (expressed as a percentage of the
transaction value).
If the seller demands a price that is too high and/or the buyer’s offer is too
low, the trade cannot be executed. Given the size of the market and the
continuous volume of transactions, this is not usually an issue. The main
exceptions are for unusually large orders and during moments of uncertainty,
such as major news developments. During these times, the market will
temporarily shrink, and spreads will widen. Those that insist on placing a
trade anyway may have to accept a less favorable execution price.
In practice, a forex dealer performs the same role for his clients by helping
them execute trades. Unlike a broker, however, the forex dealer will actually
serve as the counterparty for clients’ trades and aim to profit from favorable
exchange rate movements and also by capturing the spread. Let’s consider
the example above, to further elucidate this distinction. With a spread of
1.3502–1.3504, the broker will merely connect its clients with either the bid
or the ask party, depending on whether they wish to buy or sell. The dealer,
in contrast, will actually provide its own bid/ask spread and will fill the trade
itself. It may aim to buy at 1.3502 and instantly sell at 1.3504, or it may wish
to hold the position until it can earn a more substantial gain. Either way, the
dealer must assume some exchange rate risk.

Forex for Beginners 9
The business model of a broker is then quite different from a dealer. Despite
the conflicts of interest that the dealer model would seem to engender,
however, it is not automatically clear which one is better for clients.
Tiered System
The forex market is divided into different tiers, access to which depends on
size. The top tier is known as the interbank market (or interdealer market),
where trading takes place directly between broker-dealers and other large-
scale liquidity providers. While interbank trading accounts for less than 20%
or so of overall forex volume (Figure 1-3), it nonetheless represents the
backbone of the market. Access is limited to the world’s largest banks,
liquidity is nothing short of complete, and spreads are ludicrously small (less
than one PIP for major currencies).
Figure 1-3. Breakdown of forex market tiers
These days, interdealer trading takes place almost entirely (90% plus)
through electronic portals, such as Electronic Communication Networks
(ECNs) that include Thomson Reuters Dealing 3000, ICAP EBS, and, to a
lesser extent, Bloomberg Terminal and Citigroup LAVA.2 Qualifying banks
and broker-dealers pay subscription fees to the platform providers, and in
exchange, are granted access to certain price data. The best prices are
naturally extended to those with the best credit relationships. The ECNs do
not themselves serve as brokers, but merely facilitate trading by participants.
2 Axel Pierron, Electronic Platforms in Foreign Exchange Trading (Paris: Celent, LLC,
2007).

10 Chapter 1 | Historical Background
Toward this end, the ECNs offer trading overlays so that participants can
move seamlessly from requesting quotes to executing trades.
Interbank trades are settled by the Continuous Linked Settlement Bank
(CLS). Through a complex system of credit lines and payment protocols, this
bank is able to limit one of the most basic risks of forex: counterparty risk.
This risk is present in any financial transaction and basically represents the
possibility that one party to a financial transaction (in this case, a currency
exchange) will not honor its obligation to the other. CLS processes trades for
17 major currencies and on behalf of 69 financial institutions, comprising
more than half of all global forex activity. Since CLS settles trades daily and
ensures that everyone gets paid, participants can effectively conduct a
limitless number of forex trades. Without CLS, forex liquidity/volume would
be significantly smaller.
On behalf of their clients, brokers manually and electronically facilitate yet
another level of trading. You can see from Figure 1-3 that telephone
transactions (also known as voice broker) still account for a large portion of
overall volume. For illiquid instruments and currency pairs, nonstandard
contract sizes, unusual dates, and other circumstances, there is evidently still
an important advantage to being able to speak with a broker. Phone execution
also carries the added benefit of anonymity, which is important to some fund
managers.
The majority of broker executions (especially on the spot market) are
conducted electronically. Since 2005, brokers have begun to grant indirect
access to the interbank market to favored clients. So-called prime brokerage
account holders are able to place trades on the interbank market via their
brokers. Trades are settled in the name of the broker-dealer, not in the name
of the client that places the trade.
As seen in Figure 1-3, the interdealer market has suffered slightly, due to a
rise in competition from platforms that facilitate trading directly between
dealers and clients. In the United States, so-called customer direct trading
represents a whopping 40% of overall volume.
Most of this trading takes place on proprietary trading systems that have been
developed by broker-dealers. Due to the explosion in volume over the last
decade, a handful of the top broker-dealers account for more than $100
billion in daily volume. (See Figure 1-5.) As a result, it’s no longer necessary
for large banks to rely completely on the interbank market. Instead, they have
started to process trades internally, by directly matching their own

Forex for Beginners 11
customers’ buy and sell orders. Evidence suggests that only the largest and
most complex orders (representing perhaps 20% of the total) are now
funneled into the interbank market.
Multi-dealer trading systems currently represent the smallest corner of the
forex market. This category is poised to capture a growing chunk of volume
over the upcoming decade, however, due to its growing attraction to hedge
funds, commodity trading advisers (CTAs), and other high-frequency traders.
The market is dominated by FX Connect (State Street), FX All, Currenex
(State Street), and HotSpot FX (Knight Capital), with about a dozen others
accounting for less than 30% of multi-dealer activity.
Multi-dealer platforms are attractive to clients not only because of the
liquidity, range of instruments, and currency pairs they offer, but also
because of the sophistication of their software and the breadth of services
that they perform. Many platforms are basically one-stop shops for
institutional currency traders, offering automatic trading reconciliation,
multi-asset trading, trading statistics, streaming quotes, and even credit
guarantees. They earn money by assessing nominal fees ($10–20 per million
traded) on every transaction.
Retail represents the bottom tier of foreign exchange. The majority of retail
forex volume is processed by a handful of retail aggregators. These
aggregators work the same way as interbank broker-dealers. Sometimes they
provide quotes from various brokers and “liquidity providers” and merely
execute trades on behalf of their customers. Brokers that operate this way
will profit by presenting their customers with a slightly wider spread (i.e.,
higher price for the buyer and a lower price for the seller) than with which
their supplying interbank brokers originally presented them.
Other retail aggregators execute trades internally by either matching up
buyers with sellers or by taking the opposite side of the trade themselves.
This type of aggregator is known as a dealing desk. As you can probably
imagine, this latter approach is somewhat controversial. Given that the
majority of retail traders lose money, it is profitable for the broker. As
explained in Chapter 8, however, neither system can claim outright
superiority.
Of course there are also small transactions that are conducted at community
banks, foreign exchange kiosks, money transfer companies, and other
locations. Due to high transaction costs (i.e., spreads) and other constraints,

12 Chapter 1 | Historical Background
these institutions facilitate non-speculative currency con-versions, overseas
remittances, etc. They account for only a small portion of overall volume.
It should finally be pointed out that these tiers don’t exist in separate
vacuums. While trading amounts generally fall and spreads widen the lower
one goes on the totem pole, the market at the retail level should nonetheless
closely resemble the market at the wholesale level. Possibilities for arbitrage
(taking advantage of price discrepancies on different markets to generate
risk-free profits) should ensure that prices are consistent across all levels of
the market.
Participants
One would think that the majority of foreign exchange would take place for
necessary economic purposes, such as to facilitate international trade. Even
the most rudimentary analysis, however, shows that this is definitely not the
case. For example, the British pound and the Japanese yen are exchanged at a
rate that is 50 times greater than would be required for purposes of trade. For
the US dollar and New Zealand dollar, the ratio of forex turnover to trade
exceeds 100! You can see from the left-hand panel of Figure 1-4 that the
relationship between forex volume and Gross Domestic Product (GDP) is
similarly out of proportion, especially for Singapore and Hong Kong. The
right-hand panel of Figure 1-4 shows that even non-financial participants
exchange currencies at a rate that is far greater than necessary for normal
business operations.
Figure 1-4. Ratio of forex market turnover to selected economic indicators

Forex for Beginners 13
Corporations
To be sure, there is still plenty of foreign exchange that is conducted for non-
speculative economic purposes. Any company with overseas suppliers and/or
that sells in overseas markets will need to exchange currency on a regular
basis. In fact, many multinational companies have entire departments focused
entirely on managing their forex operations and hedging the risk that comes
from fluctuating exchange rates. By way of example, consider that Apple
Inc. must pay its Chinese suppliers in Chinese yuan, but that its accounts are
denominated in US dollars. If the US dollar depreciates by 20% against the
Chinese yuan, it would have the same effect as if Chinese wages had risen by
20%. There are several strategies that Apple Inc. has at its disposal to
minimize the impact of such currency fluctuations on its operating profits,
which I will explore in Chapter 7.
At the end of every fiscal year, multinational companies will typically
repatriate a significant portion of its earnings in order to pay taxes and
dividends. For a period of a few weeks, these flows are often significant
enough to influence exchange rates. This is especially true for Japanese
multinationals, which are primarily export-oriented and must convert billions
worth of foreign currency back into yen.
When you consider that non-financial customers account for more than $500
billion (about 13%) in daily forex turnover, it is immediately apparent that
multinational companies are doing more than simply exchanging currency
for risk management purposes. Instead, many corporations engage in forex
trading for speculative purposes. Some are prodded into doing so by their
financial advisers while others engage in speculative forex trading under
their own accord. In fact, it’s not uncommon for a multinational company’s
forex activities to cause it to swing from profit to loss, or vice versa. At the
very least, most global companies will recognize the impact of exchange
rates on their bottom lines when they release their quarterly earnings.
During the height of the 2008 credit crisis—when exchange rates were
fluctuating wildly—Hong Kong–based CITIC Group shocked the markets
when it announced a $2 billion loss from “unauthorized” forex trades. A
spate of similar announcements from other companies followed in 2009 and
2010. As a result, some companies have curtailed all forex activities that are
unrelated to core operations.

14 Chapter 1 | Historical Background
Banks and Broker-Dealers
Banks and broker-dealers (also known as prime brokers) account for $1.5
trillion in daily forex turnover. (The actual figure is certainly much higher,
since trading by other financial institutions is still facilitated by banks. This
figure represents trading volume in which a bank or broker-dealer served as a
counterparty.) CLS lists 69 broker-dealers among its members, accounting
for more than half of worldwide foreign exchange. As you can see from
Figure 1-5 below, trading activity across the world is dominated by a handful
of large banks.3 Deutsche Bank is by far the industry leader, followed closely
by Barclays Capital, UBS, and Citi.
What’s more, the leading banks have rapidly consolidated their positions.
The Bank for International Settlements attributes this to investment in
proprietary trading systems. In other words, as other sources of profit
(investment and commercial banking) have apparently dried up, banks have
moved to expand their trading operations, starting with forex. Regardless of
the reason, there are only half as many dominant forex broker-dealers (ten) as
there were a decade ago. This is true across every major trading center except
for Hong Kong.
3 Euromoney Magazine, “Euromoney FX Survey 2011,” May 2011.

Forex for Beginners 15
Figure 1-5. Concentration of trading volume among large banks
As a result of recent legislation, however, these banks are now prohibited
from trading for their own accounts, and are generally only permitted to
facilitate trades on behalf of their customers.
Other Financial Institutions
While almost all trades are ultimately routed through banks, the majority of
actual trading is conducted by financial institutions—such as hedge funds,
pension funds, investment management companies—which are engaged in
forex trading entirely for speculative purposes. These institutions trade

16 Chapter 1 | Historical Background
primarily through proprietary systems operated by individual banks or multi-
bank trading systems.
Of course, some of this volume is transacted as legitimate cross-border
investment. When a corporation invests in an overseas project, it is practicing
what is referred to as foreign direct investment (FDI). When an investment
fund buys shares of stock or bonds that trade on an overseas exchange, this is
known as portfolio investment. Such investments necessarily involve foreign
currency exchange.
However, an increasing amount of institutional volume is being transacted in
the form of high-frequency and/or algorithmic trading. Hedge funds in
particular have become notorious for their reliance on placing millions of
rapid-fire trades every day, through systems that are largely automated. They
seek to profit from miniscule changes in exchange rates and minute
discrepancies in exchange rates across different trading centers, both of
which might occur in less than a second. Known as forex arbitrage, this
strategy typically involves buying a block of currency on one exchange and
immediately reselling it for a slight profit (less than one PIP) on another
exchange.
High-frequency trading already accounts for an estimated 30% of overall
forex volume (compared to 66% of equities trading volume) and is expected
to account for a majority of volume as soon as 2012.4 On some exchanges,
algorithmic (also known as computerized) trading accounts for 45% of total
volume. This volume has allowed high-frequency traders to place themselves
at the center of the market. (See Figure 1-6.)
4 Javier Paz,“Retail FX Comes of Age: Leveraged Trading Is Here to Stay,” Aite Group,
March 23, 2011.

Forex for Beginners 17
Figure 1-6. Relationship of forex participants
High-frequency trading might explain most of the growth in overall volume
that took place over the last three years, and its use may continue to set the
pace for growth going forward. Naturally, this has spurred an arms race
among market participants to develop the fastest networks and most
sophisticated software.
Many commentators have lamented this phenomenon. To be sure, high-
frequency trading is probably responsible for increased volatility. In addition,
the sophistication of institutional trading algorithms has made it more
difficult for amateur traders to profit from technical analysis strategies. On
the other hand, hedge funds have become a great source of liquidity, driving
execution times and spreads down to record low levels. Besides, as I’ll
explain in the chapters that follow, it’s possible to craft a trading strategy that
takes this trend into account.
Retail Brokers and Retail Traders
As forex becomes increasingly mainstream, more amateur and professional
investors are rushing to join in. Households and small non-bank institutions
now account for an estimated $300 billion in global forex volume,
representing close to 10% of overall volume and market growth of 400%

18 Chapter 1 | Historical Background
from 2007! Japanese retail traders are especially active in the forex market
and may account for as much as 30% of trading in the Japanese yen. In fact,
this phenomenon has become so widespread that the media has begun to
paint a picture of Japanese women—referred to as Mrs. Watanabes—as
housewives that sit at home trading forex from their computers while their
husbands are at work.
Retail forex brokers have responded by becoming more sophisticated and
more transparent. They have developed proprietary systems that rival those
developed by broker-dealers, or engage in white label licensing of existing
multi-dealer systems. In fact, some retail brokers have been able to lure small
institutional customers away from broker-dealers. All have expanded their
operations to offer more currencies, better coverage, lower spreads, and more
tools for traders. In 2010, two forex brokers (FXCM and Gain Capital
Group) became the first in the industry to become publicly listed companies,
and a handful of others are reportedly considering a similar move.
Meanwhile, discount brokers have quietly expanded into forex. Ameritrade
entered the forex market through its purchase of ThinkorSwim in 2009.
Charles Schwab is using a similar strategy for gaining access to forex
customers, with its acquisition of OptionsExpress. Overall, the industry is
undergoing a period of rapid consolidation, which should ultimately produce
a dozen or so solid contenders.
Individuals
It could also be argued that individuals participate in the forex market on a
non-speculative basis. When consumer choices are framed in economic
terms, consumers often respond by buying whatever is cheapest. Thus,
fluctuations in exchange rates will cause important changes in travel and
consumption patterns. The silver lining of a battered exchange rate is often a
pickup in exports. Due to the recent multi-year decline of the US dollar, for
example, US prices became relatively cheaper in terms of other currencies.
As a result, US products became more attractive to foreign buyers, and
multinational companies responded by relocating assembly plants to the
United States. Overseas tourists have begun to visit the United States in
droves, and Canadian citizens (especially those that reside near the border)
have started taking short trips to the United States for the purpose of
shopping.

Forex for Beginners 19
Remittances, on the other hand, typically flow in the opposite direction.
Migrant workers in countries with strong currencies will remit part of their
salaries to countries whose currencies are relatively weak. In this way,
migrant workers are also tailoring their economic behavior so as to take
exchange rates into account. As I will show in Chapter 3, the pull that this
exerts on forex markets is not insignificant.
Central Banks
Most currency traders consider the role of central banks only insofar as their
policy actions indirectly influence exchange rates. In reality, however,
central banks are among the largest and most active participants in the forex
markets. During certain years, the world’s largest banks may buy hundreds of
billions of dollars worth of foreign currency.
Despite preaching laissez-faire economics, many central banks closely
monitor the value of their respective currencies. When exchange rates deviate
too far from a targeted value, some central banks will then go so far as to
intervene in forex markets. They do this by buying or selling their home
currency, causing it to appreciate or depreciate, respectively. These programs
of intervention inevitably fail over the long-term, but over the short-term
they can be very effective. That’s probably because central banks have
control over the money printing presses and nearly unlimited budgets.
Speculators understand this and may not wish to take positions that aren’t
consistent with the short-term goals of the central bank.
In the process, central banks may amass hundreds of billions of dollars in
foreign exchange reserves. The allocation of these reserves can have a direct
impact on forex markets, as will be discussed later.
Regulation
It was only in the wake of the financial crisis that governments became
serious about regulating the forex market—especially the retail side of the
market. Due to its regional fragmentation, the market naturally resists
regulation. A second problem is that forex is traded through a variety of
financial instruments, and each instrument is technically regulated by a
different government bureau.

20 Chapter 1 | Historical Background
The Dodd-Frank Consumer Protection Act of 2010 was intended to resolve
some of these jurisdictional issues. The Commodity Futures Trading
Commission (CFTC) has taken the lead and is now the official regulator of
the forex spot market. After several rounds of negotiations and a public
comment period, the CFTC formally released a set of new regulations in late
2010.
As a direct result of these new regulations, all forex firms are now required to
register with the National Futures Association (NFA), either as futures
commission merchants (FCMs) or as retail foreign exchange dealers
(RFEDs). Registering institutions are required to “maintain net capital of $20
million plus 5 percent of the amount, if any, by which liabilities to retail
forex customers exceed $10 million”5 in order to protect traders against the
possibility of broker bankruptcy. In addition, “persons who solicit orders,
exercise discretionary trading authority or operate pools with respect to retail
forex also will be required to register, either as introducing brokers,
commodity trading advisors, commodity pool operators (as appropriate) or as
associated persons of such entities.”6 Forex brokers must also “disclose on a
quarterly basis the percentage of non-discretionary accounts that realized a
profit and to keep and make available records of that calculation.”7 (Actually,
this calculation has become an excellent tool for first comparing and then
selecting a broker, as will be shown in Chapter 8.) Finally, American forex
firms are basically prohibited from offering commodities trading and
contracts for difference (CFD). Because of their derivative nature, there are
too many restrictions on trading them over-the-counter (OTC).
These new rules have also been accompanied by strict enforcement. Firms
that have failed to register are investigated and prosecuted. The NFA has also
been quick to bring high-profile cases against legitimate firms. In 2011,
FXCM was fined a record $8 million for illegally profiting from movements
in exchange rates, and ordered to pay an additional $8 million in restitution
to customers.8
5 “CFTC Releases Final Rules Regarding Retail Forex Transactions,” CFTC, August 30,
2010, www.cftc.gov/PressRoom/PressReleases/pr5883-10.
6 Ibid.
7 “Final Rule Regarding Retail Foreign Exchange Transactions,” CFTC, August 30,
2010,
www.cftc.gov/ucm/groups/public/@newsroom/documents/file/forexfinalrulefactsheet.pdf
.

Forex for Beginners 21
The majority of retail forex brokers have accepted the registration
requirements. (CitiFX is the only major forex broker that is exempt from
registering; as a bank, it is not under the same regulatory purview as forex
brokers.) In fact, many of the brokers lobbied aggressively for the new
regulations with the intention of raising the barriers to entry and helping
existing brokers consolidate their market share. The registration requirements
have also brought much-needed credibility to an industry severely lacking in
it and a framework for dispute resolution.
Exchange Traded Funds (including currency ETFs) are regulated by the
United States Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), while the
stockbrokers that facilitate their trading are governed by the National
Association of Securities Dealers (NASD) and to a lesser extent by the
Securities Investor Protection Corporation (SIPC).
The one clause in the new regulations that was resisted by brokers and
traders alike prohibits leverage that exceeds 50:1 for major currency pairs
and 20:1 for other currencies. (It should be noted, however, that the CFTC
did not itself specify the currency pairs that fall into each category.) Brokers
were naturally upset that a direct source of profit (and a driver of volume)
was being curtailed. Traders argued that it was an encroachment of
government and threatened to move their accounts to offshore brokers.
Indeed, so-called regulatory arbitrage will always be an issue in forex, as
there will always be US account holders that wish to trade using leverage in
excess of what US brokers are legally allowed to offer. Not only are these
traders breaking the law, but they also lose any consumer protection afforded
by the US legal system. In fact, there have been a handful of cases of US
traders experiencing difficulty in withdrawing funds from UK brokers.
Forbes speculated, “These new rules will put a stop to Americans trading
retail forex offshore to evade CFTC rules. That trend picked up the pace in
recent years and it may need to be reversed quickly.”9
With the exception of the European Union, other locales are governed by
relatively lax forex regulation. Some have even used the lack of regulation as
a selling point to prospective traders. In some countries—such as
8 Chana R. Schoenberger, “FXCM to Pay $14 Million in Exchange-Rate Cases,” Wall
Street Journal, October 3, 2011.
9 Robert A. Green, “New CFTC Forex Trading Rules Call or 50:1 Leverage,” Forbes
Magazine, September 2, 2010.

22 Chapter 1 | Historical Background
Brazil—foreign investors must pay high tax rates in order to transfer funds
into local currency. In other countries—namely China—forex trading has
been banned completely, usually because it conflicts with the local monetary
policy.
Conclusion
As you can see, the system, structure, and rules of forex market distinguish it
from almost every other type of financial market. Currencies are traded
differently from other securities and governed by different regulations.
Participants behave differently and interact through unique, specialized
systems. With this foundation, let’s move ahead and examine some of the
specific vehicles that are used to capture currency fluctuations, and the
concrete ways in which traders seeking upside exposure to forex utilize them.

C H A P T E R
2
What Are
Your
Options?
Currency Pairs and Investment
Vehicles
There are perhaps 160 different currencies in the world. While all currencies
necessarily have exchange value, the majority of them are not exchanged
outside of the territories where they are used. The Continuous Linked
Settlement Bank (CLS) settles trades in only 17 currencies, and liquidity is
greatest for an even smaller group of selected currencies. These so-called
major currencies account for more than 90% of global foreign exchange
volume and tend to be characterized by tight spreads and excellent liquidity.
Expanding this group to include 20 or so exotic currencies can account for
more than 97% of overall volume, as shown in Figure 2-1.

24 Chapter 2 | What Are Your Options?
Figure 2-1. Major and exotic currencies, percent of overall trading volume: 2001–20101
Just like stocks have ticker symbols, currencies have three-letter
abbreviations, known as ISO (International Standards Organization) codes,
which simplify the quoting and trading of currencies. As you can see from
Table 2-1, ISO codes tend to be self-explanatory.
Table 2-1. ISO Codes for Major and Exotic Currencies
US dollar USD Polish zloty PLN
Euro EUR Turkish lira TLR
Japanese yen JPY South African rand ZAR
British pound GBP Brazilian real BRL
Australian dollar AUD Danish krone DKK
Swiss franc CHF New Taiwan dollar TWD
Canadian dollar CAD Hungarian forint HUF
Hong Kong dollar HKD Chinese yuan renminbi CNY
1 The total sum is 200% because every currency trade always involves two currencies.

Forex for Beginners 25
Swedish krona SEK Malaysian ringgit MYR
New Zealand dollar NZD Thai baht THB
Korean won KRW Czech koruna CZK
Singapore dollar SGD Philippine peso PHP
Norwegian krone NOK Chilean peso CLP
Mexican peso MXP Indonesian rupiah IDR
Indian rupee INR New Israeli shekel ILS
Russian ruble RUB Colombian peso COP
Remember that currencies fluctuate relative to other currencies, and that they
must necessarily be traded in pairs. There are hundreds of potential currency
combinations involving the 30 most popular currencies, but less than 100
pairs dominate trading in mainstream investment channels. Most retail forex
brokers offer about 50 pairs.
There are a few reasons for this. First, most exotic currencies are traded only
relative to major currencies, rather than against other exotic currencies. You
would never see a quote for the Czech koruna against the Thai baht, though
both currencies can easily be exchanged for euros or US dollars. That’s not
to say that Czech companies and individuals have no way to exchange
koruna for baht, but rather that volume is too small for international broker-
dealers to profitably maintain a liquid market. Second, the forex market is
governed by the rule of triangular arbitrage, which dictates that for a set of
three currency pairs, only two of them can fluctuate independently. For
example, consider the following three currency pairs: dollar/euro, dollar/yen,
and yen/euro. If the dollar rises by 1% against the euro, and the dollar stays
flat against the yen, the yen must necessarily rise by 1% against the euro in
order for market equilibrium to be maintained. These days, computerized
trading systems can spot even the smallest discrepancies, and arbitrage them
away in mere milliseconds.
Besides, it has historically been the case that exotic currencies fluctuate
relative to the dollar, euro, or other major currencies. There simply isn’t

26 Chapter 2 | What Are Your Options?
enough bilateral trade or cross-border investment between the Czech
Republic and Thailand for the market to be able to determine a reasonable
exchange rate between their respective currencies. Instead, both currencies
will trade relative to the US dollar, and triangular arbitrage will dictate the
cross rate for the koruna/baht (CZK/THB). For investors that nonetheless
want direct exposure to CZK/THB, the investment process is fairly
straightforward. By buying the USD/THB and simultaneously selling the
CZK/USD, the result is a synthetic CZK/THB position:
USD + CZK = CZK
THB USD THB
US Dollar
The US dollar (or Greenback) is easily the world’s most important currency.
The relative strength of the US dollar is largely attributable to the facts that
US economy is the largest in the world and its capital markets are the deepest
and most liquid. Some also attribute the dollar’s strength to political/military
factors, while others consider it an outgrowth of the old Bretton Woods
System. Regardless, the US dollar is the fulcrum of the forex markets, and all
other exchange rates are based in large part on market participants’
perceptions of the dollar.
In addition to its status as the world’s most important currency, the US dollar
is also the most liquid, and so it is unsurprising that it serves as the world’s
de facto reserve currency. In fact, roughly 65% of the world’s reserves are
denominated in US dollars, and as a result, central banks around the world
collectively hold many trillions of dollars worth of currency on their balance
sheets. From time to time, central banks will agitate for a new system that
would leave them less exposed to a sudden devaluation in the US dollar. For
a variety of reasons, however, they haven’t made much headway in this
quest. It can be seen from Figure 2-2 that the US dollar is represented in the
overwhelming majority of forex transactions.

Forex for Beginners 27
Figure 2-2. Breakdown of forex volume by currency pair
As I explained in Chapter 1, the US dollar’s defining feature is that it is a
safe-haven currency. During times of global financial, economic, or even
political uncertainty, the underlying value of the dollar will rise. This point
was underscored during the height of the global credit crisis in 2008–2009.
Even though much of the financial distress originated within the United
States (i.e., the bankruptcies of Lehman Brothers and Bear Stearns, falling
real estate prices, etc.) the US dollar appreciated in value. That’s because
investors from the United States and around the world were suddenly
overcome with fear, and moved their cash to what is perceived as the world’s
safest location: US government securities. That the US financial system was
in many ways the source of instability was bizarrely of no concern to the

28 Chapter 2 | What Are Your Options?
forex markets! In addition, whether or not Treasury bonds are actually a good
investment is certainly open to debate. What’s important is that they are
perceived as the safest investment in the world, a general sentiment that is
made clear every time there is even a minor crisis in the financial industry.
To be sure, the US dollar looks vulnerable on a number of fronts. As this
book goes to press, the US economic recovery remains precarious, and a
second recession is not out of the question. The unemployment rate is still
high, interest rates remain low, housing and stock prices are plummeting, and
commodity prices are rising. While the trade imbalance seems to have
stabilized, it is nonetheless tilted heavily towards deficit.
Some commentators argue that there is a glut of dollars in the money supply
as a result of two Federal Reserve Bank monetary stimulus programs. Left
unattended, this could lead to an inflationary surge. Meanwhile, both public
and private debts continue to reach record levels, and the US sovereign credit
rating was downgraded from the highest level of AAA in 2011. Due to
previously unseen levels of political infighting, federal and state
governments seem incapable of putting the United States on a sustainable
economic course. For this reason, there are a number of bears that insist the
period of dollar hegemony will soon come to an end.
For now at least, however, the dollar seems likely to hold on to its position
atop the forex markets, if only because of a lack of viable alternatives. (The
Wizard of Omaha Warren Buffett famously lost more than $1 billion in 2005,
when he bet on a long-term decline of the dollar.) As we’ll see later, most
other major currencies are racked by the same financial and economic
problems as the dollar. Emerging market economies represent the future of
the global economy, but it will still be many years before their currencies can
challenge the dollar and the rest of the world’s major currencies.
Euro
The euro was introduced in 1999 and entered circulation in 2002. As of 2012,
it has replaced 20 separate sovereign currencies, including the deutsche mark
and French franc. The Eurozone is the world’s second largest economy, and
the euro is easily the second most important currency.
The euro owes its existence both to political and economic forces. It was
intended to further unify the European Union by eliminating the need for
currency conversion within its borders. Moreover, it was deliberately

Forex for Beginners 29
engineered to be stronger than the US dollar (i.e., one euro is worth more
than one dollar), and has remained quite strong since its inception. From
2002 to 2008, it appreciated by more than 70% against the dollar, and many
currency investors netted a healthy profit. For both political and economic
reasons, it has gained widespread acceptance as an alternative to the US
dollar. This is displayed in Figure 2-3.
Figure 2-3. Complete history of EUR/USD
After peaking at $1.60 in 2008, however, the euro entered a period of
decline. The first punch came in the form of the global credit crisis, which
froze the European banking system and required significant intervention by
the European Central Bank (ECB). Then came the revelation that some of the
peripheral members of the European Union had overextended themselves and
were teetering on the verge of bankruptcy. Greece, Ireland, Portugal, and
Spain have all received financial support from the European Union and the
International Monetary Fund (IMF), but investors remain skeptical that these
countries can avoid defaulting on their debt. These countries have
experienced repeated cuts in their sovereign credit rating and skyrocketing
borrowing rates, and at this point, the vicious cycle of economic decline and
cuts in government spending seem to make default a self-fulfilling prophecy.
The ultimate concern is that other EU economies will become engulfed in the
storm, and that the European fiscal crisis will morph into a full-blown
financial crisis. The reason being is that European banks lent heavily to the

30 Chapter 2 | What Are Your Options?
so-called PIGS countries (Portugal, Ireland, Greece, and Spain) during the
economic boom years, and would certainly collapse if one or more of these
countries defaulted on their debts. The extent to which foreign banks are
exposed to Eurozone debt default is displayed in Figure 2-4.
Figure 2-4. Foreign banks’ exposure to Eurozone debt default2
In hindsight, it looks as though the original case for monetary union of the
Eurozone was overstated. The Eurozone economies are simply too different
from one another for their monetary unification to be justified. Furthermore,
unifying under the umbrella of a common currency stripped them of their
ability to carry out independent monetary policies, but did not similarly
mandate a common fiscal policy. This sowed the seeds for extreme
imbalances: during the boom years, low interest rates promoted overheating
on the Eurozone periphery. These economies have been hit
disproportionately hard by the bust, and without currency
depreciation—rendered impossible by the euro—they have very few
prospects for recovery. In short, the luster of the euro has been dented
severely. It remains possible that the ten-year common currency experiment
will soon come to an end.
2 Bank for International Settlements (BIS), Quarterly Review March 2011, www.bis.org/
publ/qtrpdf/r_qt1103.pdf.

Forex for Beginners 31
Japanese Yen
The Japanese yen is perhaps the world’s best performing currency of the
modern era, having strengthened by 400% against the US dollar since 1971!
(See Figure 2-5.)
Figure 2-5. Recent history of USD/JPY (with exchange rate shown in reverse)
Initially, the yen’s resurgence was due to a post–World War II economic
boom in Japan that lasted well into the 1980s and culminated in Japan’s
emergence as the world’s second largest economy. (It has since been eclipsed
by China in 2010.) Ultimately, however, this boom proved unsustainable,
and Japan’s economy has stagnated for the better part of two decades. The
same can also be said of its stock market.
What has saved the yen from the same dubious fate is Japan’s export sector.
Up until 2009, Japan had recorded a trade surplus (where exports exceed
imports) for more than 30 consecutive years! This is especially amazing
when you consider that Japan lacks natural resources and relies almost
entirely on deposits in other countries to satisfy its needs for energy and other
commodities. In addition, price inflation (which directly erodes the value of
money) has been virtually nonexistent in Japan. Even though Japan’s public
debt is the largest in the world (on a per-capita basis), it is financed entirely
from domestic savings. Finally, Japan’s financial system is as sophisticated
as any in the world and continues to attract strong investment. All of these
forces ensure that demand for yen continually exceeds supply.

32 Chapter 2 | What Are Your Options?
For most of the 2000s, the yen suffered a mild decline due to record low
interest rates in Japan that enabled opportunistic investors to borrow in yen
and use the proceeds for high-yielding investments abroad. This caused a
massive outflow of yen from Japan. However, this phenomenon came to an
end in 2008 when investors got spooked and moved to unwind all of their
short bets on the yen. Ironically, the March 2011 tsunami/earthquake only
accelerated this trend, and the repatriation of yen to fund reconstruction and
insurance payouts has even further provided support for the currency. Even a
historic-joint intervention by the world’s largest central banks was unable to
stop the yen from surging toward record highs.
British Pound
The pound sterling (or cable) was the strongest currency in the pre–World
War II era. Despite ceding this title to the US dollar, it has managed to
remain the fourth-most traded currency in the world, which is due in no small
part to London’s position as the world’s preeminent currency trading center.
The British economy largely mirrors that of the United States. It has been
hollowed out by the shift of manufacturing to developing countries, and has
been plagued by a perennial trade deficit. Unemployment and inflation levels
are consistently among the highest in the industrialized world. Its housing
market is still weak and may not recover for several years. UK public debt
more than doubled from 2007 to 2011, which the Bank of England enabled
by printing money on a never-before-seen scale following the 2008 economic
downturn.
After a record run-up, the pound collapsed in the fall of 2008, depreciating
by more than 30% from peak to trough. The UK government has yet to
produce a coherent plan for exiting from recession, and four years later, the
pound is still referred to as a “sick” currency.
Swiss Franc
Without knowing anything about the Swiss franc, there are already a few
prima facie observations that can be made. First, the Swiss franc has proven
itself to be an excellent store of value, especially relative to the US dollar.
Second, the value of the Swiss franc has closely mirrored that of the euro, as
can be seen in Figure 2-6.

Forex for Beginners 33
Figure 2-6. Swiss franc / euro correlation
The Swiss economy is one of the most stable in the world, and on a per-
capita basis, Switzerland is the world’s second wealthiest country (not
including city-states), trailing only Norway. It boasts low unemployment and
low inflation. Its trade surplus has expanded in spite of the rising franc
thanks to key exports, such as jewelry (including watches), textile machines,
chemicals, and tobacco products. The Swiss National Bank (SNB) has helped
the overall health of the Swiss economy with a conservative monetary policy;
it was one of the few major central banks that refrained from printing money
during the credit crisis.
In some ways, the Swiss franc is the world’s ultimate safe-haven currency.
Whenever there is a flare-up in financial uncertainty, the franc typically rises
more than both the Japanese yen and US dollar. This is perhaps due to the
fact that the Swiss economy and financial markets are not large enough to
absorb massive amounts of capital inflows without exerting upward pressure
on the franc.
As for the Swiss franc’s historic correlation with the euro, as shown in Figure
2-6, the Swiss and Eurozone economies are closely intertwined. Thus, it
should come as no surprise that for most of the euro’s existence, the two
currencies have moved in tandem with one another. With the inception of the
credit crisis, however, investors began to see the franc as a proxy for betting
on the stronger members of the Eurozone (Germany, France) without the
baggage from the weaker members that comes with owning the euro. The
benefits of Swiss neutrality (it is a member of neither the European Monetary
Union nor the G7 and was one of the last countries to join the United
Nations) have trickled all the way down to the franc.

34 Chapter 2 | What Are Your Options?
In 2009, the SNB undertook a serious effort to prevent the franc from rising,
and it even managed to hold the franc at €1.50 for several months. This can
be seen in Figure 2-7. The upward pressure on the franc instead found an
outlet in the CHF/USD, which rose by a whopping 60% from 2009 to 2011!
The franc eventually broke through the barrier with the euro, rising to a
record high and costing the SNB more than $20 billion in losses. In
September of 2011, the SNB shocked the markets when it resumed its
campaign and announced that the franc would not be permitted to rise
beyond €1.20.
Credit Crisis
SNB Intervention
Figure 2-7. Rising franc (shown in reverse) and SNB intervention
Canadian Dollar
The Canadian dollar (or Loonie) is one of a handful of major currencies that
correlates closely with commodity prices. Canada is one of the world’s major
producers of petroleum, electricity, timber, and certain agricultural products.
Thus, the commodities boom that began in the 2000s and picked up again in
2010 coincided with a steady rise in the Loonie, which breached parity (1:1)
against the US dollar for the first time in 30 years. This can be seen in Figure
2-8.

Forex for Beginners 35
Figure 2-8. Recent history of CAD/USD
Ultimately, the most important facet of Canada’s economy is its relationship
with the United States. Canada is the most important foreign supplier of oil,
natural gas, and electricity to the United States. Moreover, the United States
absorbs around 75% of all Canadian exports. Thus, the economic fortunes of
Canada hinge closely on those of the United States, and so it should come as
no surprise that the economic downturn in the United States, combined with
a soaring Loonie, hit Canada hard. In 2009, the balance of trade shifted
towards deficit, and reports of cross-border shopping trips by deal-hunting
Canadians have since abounded in the news media. Some commentators
wonder whether the Loonie really deserves to trade at parity with the dollar.
Australian Dollar
The correlation between the Australian dollar (or Aussie) and commodities
prices is perhaps the strongest among the so-called commodity currencies, as
can be seen in Figure 2-9. In fact, Australia is among the world leaders in the
production of coal, iron ore, and other precious metals. Thanks to these vast
resources of energy and commodities, supported by interminably growing
demand from China, Australia managed to emerge from the global financial
crisis virtually unscathed.

36 Chapter 2 | What Are Your Options?
Figure 2-9. Correlation between AUD/USD and commodities prices
There are a couple of other observations that can be made about the
Australian dollar. First, Australia’s economy is closely tied to that of
Asia—the destination for the majority of its exports—and especially China.
As the Chinese yuan is pegged to the US dollar (more on that later) and
Chinese capital markets are somewhat opaque, investors have started to treat
the Australian dollar as a proxy for investing in the Chinese yuan. Second,
Australian interest rate levels tend to be significantly higher than those in
other industrialized countries. The Reserve Bank of Australia’s (RBA)
benchmark rate touched 7.25% in 2008, and was held above 3% during the
depths of the global financial crisis. When investor risk appetite is high, then,
Australia typically experiences an influx of speculative capital from investors
seeking to take advantage of relatively high interest rates.
New Zealand Dollar
The New Zealand dollar (or Kiwi) is influenced by the same key economic
factors as the Australian dollar; namely, high GDP growth, high inflation and
interest rates, and a reliance on commodities as a driver of economic growth.
Instead of metals and energy, however, New Zealand is a leading producer of
dairy products and agricultural staples. Due to these factors as well as mere
proximity, the NZ dollar has historically traded close to the Australian dollar,
which can be seen in Figure 2-10. An unfavorable balance of trade and
relatively high public debt levels, however, have caused the Kiwi to fall
behind in the last several years.

Forex for Beginners 37
Figure 2-10. Recent history of AUD/NZD
Hong Kong Dollar
While Hong Kong is politically part of China, its economy and monetary
system are still considered separate entities. It has its own currency and an
independent central bank. However, its currency—the Hong Kong
dollar—has been pegged at 7.8 HKD/USD since 1983 and is permitted to
fluctuate only within a tight band. Despite being the eighth most traded
currency in the world, it is ironically of little interest to currency speculators.
It is important to forex markets mainly because of the vast sums its central
bank must spend in order to maintain the peg. It has built up foreign
exchange reserves of approximately $300 billion, providing great support for
the US dollar in the process.3
Chinese Yuan
The Chinese yuan (or renminbi, RMB) should be one of the most important
currencies in the world. The Chinese economy is already the world’s second
largest, and it leads the world in the volume of international trade. Alas, the
People’s Bank of China (PBOC) pegs the yuan to the US dollar at an
artificially low rate in order to provide a benefit to Chinese exporters.
Technically, the yuan has been allowed to float freely since 2005, as can be
seen in Figure 2-11.
3 Hong Kong Monetary Authority, Annual Report 2010, www.hkma.gov.hk/media/eng
/publication-and-research/annual-report/2010/ar2010.pdf.

38 Chapter 2 | What Are Your Options?
Figure 2-11. Recent history of CNY/USD (with exchange rate shown in reverse)
While it has risen by more than 25% against the US dollar in the ensuing
years, however, its appreciation is still tightly controlled and remains an
important component of China’s national economic policy. In order to
maintain this peg, the PBOC must buy $40 billion in foreign currency every
month. It also strictly limits the trading of yuan outside of its borders, and
maintains rigid controls on the movement of capital in and out of the country.
In addition, China’s capital markets are disproportionately small, and far
from transparent. Most public companies are majority-owned by the state,
and a lack of accounting controls has given rise to repeated corporate
scandals. As companies tend to borrow directly from banks, and municipal
governments borrow from the central government (or not at all), the bond
markets are similarly undeveloped. Furthermore, China’s multi-tiered market
structure discriminates against foreign investors. Even in matters of foreign
direct investment (FDI), foreign companies are typically required to enter
into joint ventures with local partners.
The Chinese government has tried to encourage the use of the yuan to settle
trade. Toward this end, it has signed swap agreements with a handful of trade
partners. In the end, however, the yuan will not achieve widespread
acceptance until it is truly allowed to float freely and until Chinese capital
markets are liquid enough to absorb significant inflows of international
capital. Thus, it may account for “about 3% to 12% of international reserves
by 2035.”4
4 Asian Development Bank, The Future Global Reserve System—An Asian Perspective,
June 2010, http://aric.adb.org/grs/papers/Future_Global_Reserve_System.pdf.

Forex for Beginners 39
By most estimates, the yuan remains undervalued. Unfortunately, further
appreciation depends more on political factors than on financial economic
forces. For those that nonetheless want to bet that the yuan will be worth
more in the future, there are investment vehicles that enable such speculation
that will be discussed later in this chapter.
Exotic Currencies
With a handful of exceptions (Swedish krona, Norwegian krone, Singapore
dollar, etc.), the rest of the lot can be broadly lumped into the category of
exotic currencies. As most of these currencies also happen to be associated
with emerging market economies, they are often referred to as emerging
currencies or emerging market currencies. Emerging market currencies are
somewhat akin to growth stocks and high-yield bonds. They are
characterized by extremely high rates of growth, but also by high rates of
inflation. Their capital markets are not as sophisticated and transparent as
their G8 equivalents, but they are often backed by high interest rates. During
boom times, their currencies typically outperform major currencies. During
times of crisis or uncertainty, their currencies are likewise the biggest
sufferers.
While emerging currencies account for a minority of forex turnover, their
share is growing rapidly. The 14 exotic currencies depicted in Figure 2-12,
for example, accounted for a combined 9% of overall volume in 2010,
compared to a meager 2% in 1998.
Figure 2-12. Growing share of forex market turnover by emerging currencies

40 Chapter 2 | What Are Your Options?
The consensus among forex market watchers is that emerging market
currencies nonetheless represent the future. Their economies collectively
account for more than half of the global economy and an even greater share
of global growth. In 2010, emerging market economies expanded at a
collective 7.1%, compared to 2.7% growth in advanced economies. The
disparity in financial market returns is similarly wide. Emerging market
central banks control the majority of the world’s foreign exchange reserves,
and collectively add nearly $1 trillion in new reserves every year. Debt levels
in advanced economies are projected to reach 114% of GDP in 2014,
compared to 35% in emerging market economies.
At a certain point, the rise in emerging market currencies will become self-
fulfilling. For now, liquidity is still too low and spreads are still too high to
attract serious institutional interest. A handful of currencies, such as the
Korean won, Mexican peso, and South African rand, are settled by the CLS
Bank and are thus more attractive to speculators. Even so, trading such
currencies against anything besides the US dollar or euro would be
uneconomical. With a few exceptions, then, the majority of emerging
currencies are suitable only for medium-term (greater than one month) and
long-term (less than three months) trend trading.
Investors are often quick to lump emerging market currencies into one group,
as though they move as one cohesive bunch. To be fair, sometimes this
practice is indeed justified. During the credit crisis, for example, emerging
currencies rose and fell in unison, in accordance with the frequent changes in
investor market sentiment. During periods of normal market function,
however, emerging currencies fluctuate independently. Every economy is
different, and the characteristics of one currency might be completely
different from the currency of a bordering country. For example, Brazilian
interest rates are among the highest in the world, and the Brazilian real is a
popular currency for yield-hungry carry traders. South Africa is a leading
producer of gold, and the South African rand sometimes mirrors gold prices.
The same can be said for Mexico (oil), Russia (natural gas) and Chile
(copper). South Korea is a high-tech export powerhouse, and the Korean won
can be counted on to outperform when the global economy is strong. As a
result, performance can vary significantly from one emerging currency to
another (Figure 2-13).

Forex for Beginners 41
Figure 2-13. Variations in performance among emerging currencies
There is one final point that I would like to make regarding emerging market
currencies: their governments pay much closer attention to them than
advanced economies do to their respective currencies. Due to higher saving
rates and lower domestic spending, emerging market economies are often
more dependent on exports to drive growth. That means that their central
banks have a vested interest in keeping their currencies as cheap as possible.
Thus, you can always count on emerging markets to step in when their
currencies appreciate too quickly. Sometimes, they will verbally warn
speculators. Other times, they will impose capital controls (in the form of
taxes or other punitive measures) in order to limit short-term investment
inflows and stem the upward pressure on their currencies. As we will see in
Chapter 3, such efforts are rarely successful in the long-term, but traders
need to be aware of them in the short-term.
Currency Trading Instruments
Choosing a currency pair to trade represents only the tip of the currency-
trading iceberg. In fact, currencies are exchanged through a wide variety of
different instruments, and each one is governed by different rules and
different strategies. For administrative purposes, instruments are classified as
spot, forward, futures, options, or swaps. (See Figure 2-14.)

42 Chapter 2 | What Are Your Options?
Figure 2-14. Daily forex turnover, by instrument5
Spot Instruments
A spot transaction is defined as a “single outright transaction involving the
exchange of two currencies at a rate agreed on the date of the contract for
value or delivery (cash settlement) within two business days.”6 For all intents
and purposes, spot refers to all real-time, actual currency trades. If you are
buying and selling currency right now (as opposed to at some point in the
future), you are almost certainly engaging in spot trading. While this
probably sounds repetitive, consider that the vast majority of forex exchange
contracts are intended for delivery in the future, or not at all!
As I explained in Chapter 1, most spot trading takes place electronically and
instantaneously. Traders simply select the currency pair they want to trade
and the amount of currency, key the order (along with a few other variables)
into their trading platform, and voilà, a spot trade is executed. This goes for
both institutional and retail traders.
5 BIS, Triennial Central Bank Survey of Foreign Exchange and Derivatives Market
Activity in April 2010, September 2010, www.bis.org/publ/rpfx10.pdf.
6 Ibid.

Forex for Beginners 43
Exchange Traded Funds
Some retail traders will inevitably find it easier to trade currencies indirectly,
through Exchange Traded Funds (ETFs) or Exchange Traded Notes (ETNs).
Those of you who have invested casually in the stock market are probably
familiar with ETFs. With their low expense ratios and high liquidity, they
represent attractive alternatives to mutual funds.
An ETF is almost identical to a mutual fund, with the main difference that it
must be listed on an exchange and hence is very easy to buy and sell. An
ETN is functionally identical to an ETF, but it is structurally different. ETN
investors necessarily assume the credit risk of the issuer, whereas an ETF
holder bears no such risk. For this reason, ETFs are more common with
investors than ETNs. Both types of securities trade on stock exchanges and
are regulated by the United States Securities and Exchange Commission
(SEC).
Currency ETFs run the gamut from passive exchange rate funds to actively
managed strategy funds. There are already 37 such funds that trade on US
exchanges, and a few dozen more that trade in London or Toronto (Table 2-
2).
Table 2-2. List of Currency ETFs/ETNs Traded on US Exchanges
WisdomTree Dreyfus CCX CurrencyShares Russian XRU
Commodity Currency Fund Ruble Trust
WisdomTree Dreyfus CEW WisdomTree Dreyfus BNZ
Emerging Currency Fund New Zealand dollar Fund
WisdomTree Dreyfus JYF WisdomTree Dreyfus SZR
Japanese yen Fund South African Rand Fund
WisdomTree Dreyfus ICN WisdomTree Dreyfus EU
Indian Rupee Fund euro Fund
PowerShares DB US dollar UUP Market Vectors Chinese CNY
Index Bullish Fund Renminbi/USD
Barclays Asian & Gulf PGD CurrencyShares Swiss FXF
Currency Revaluation Franc Trust
Barclays GEMS Asia 8 AYT FactorShares 2X S&P FSU
500 Bull/USD Bear

44 Chapter 2 | What Are Your Options?
Barclays GEMS Index JEM EUR/USD Exchange ERO
Rate
CurrencyShares Australian FXA ProShares UltraShort yen YCS
dollar Trust
CurrencyShares British FXB WisdomTree Dreyfus BZF
pound Sterling Trust Brazilian Real Fund
CurrencyShares Canadian FXC ProShares Ultra yen ETF YCL
dollar Trust
WisdomTree Dreyfus CYB ProShares UltraShort EUO
Chinese Yuan Fund euro
CurrencyShares euro Trust FXE GBP/USD Exchange GBB
Rate
CurrencyShares Japanese FXY ProShares Ultra euro ULE
yen Trust
CurrencyShares Mexican FXM Market Vectors Double DRR
Peso Trust Short euro
Market Vectors Indian INR PowerShares DB G10 DBV
Rupee/USD Currency Harvest Fund
Market Vectors Double URR PowerShares DB US UDN
Long euro dollar Index Bearish
Fund
iPath Optimized Currency ICI JPY/USD Exchange Rate JYN
Carry ETN
CurrencyShares Swedish FXS
Krona Trust
Of course, there are a few downsides to ETFs. They carry expense ratios
(~1–2%)—which eat into returns—and are subject to trading commissions.
They are also never as liquid as the underlying currencies, such that spreads
are higher. Stockbrokers offer lower leverage than foreign exchange brokers,
and are not capable of paying interest on one’s open foreign exchange
positions. Finally, currency ETFs provide only indirect exposure to
currencies, and there is always a slight lag between fluctuations in the ETFs
and fluctuations in the underlying currency or currencies (Figure 2-15). Still,

Forex for Beginners 45
for long-term investors who wish to integrate currencies into a diversified
portfolio, ETFs are an excellent choice.
Figure 2-15. EUR/USD spot rate versus comparable ETF
Investors that want to make basic directional bets in the forex market can
choose between ETFs that track individual currencies and ETFs that track
multiple currencies. There are currently ETFs for the US dollar, euro, Swiss
franc, Australian dollar, New Zealand dollar, British pound, Canadian dollar,
Japanese yen, Mexican peso, Brazilian real, Indian rupee, Russian ruble,
Swedish krona, Chinese yuan, and South African rand, spread across six
different issuers. For the dollar and the euro, investors can choose between
multiple issuers. Some of these funds even contain built-in leverage and/or
mimic a “short” investment (though all currency trades necessarily involve a
short bet).
Currency investors that want diversified exposure can buy bundled-currency
ETFs, such as the PowerShares DB US Dollar Bullish Fund (UUP) and
Bearish Fund (UDN), which are designed, respectively, to replicate buying or
selling the dollar against six major currencies. Other options include the
Barclays Global Emerging Markets Strategy ETN (JEM), which is comprised
of 15 equally weighted currencies, and the Emerging Market Asia Fund
(AYT), which consists of 8 emerging Asian currencies.
Finally, there are actively managed funds that aim to achieve particular
strategies. For example, the Barclays iPath Optimized Currency Carry
Exchange Traded Note (ICI) is composed of long positions in high-yielding
currencies (those with high local deposit rates) funded with low-yielding
(those with cheap borrowing rates) currencies. Rather than seek to profit
from currency appreciation, these funds aim to capture the spread from

46 Chapter 2 | What Are Your Options?
interest rate differentials. The PowerShares DB G10 Currency Harvest Fund
(DBV) employs a similar strategy, aided by leverage. For those with a higher
risk tolerance but aversion to hassle, both funds provide a great proxy for the
so-called carry trade.
Forwards
A forex forward agreement is an obligation to buy or sell a specific currency
(pair) on a future date for a fixed price that is set on the date of the contract.
As with the other types of instruments detailed below, a forward agreement is
a kind of derivative, so-called because its value is derived from some other
instrument, in this case the physical currency.
Forward agreements do not generally trade on exchanges and are instead
executed directly between two counterparties. That being said, forex forward
volume is immense (~$500 billion per day), and it’s relatively easy to obtain
forward rate quotes for certain currency pairs.
While retail traders are unlikely to ever be in a position to execute a forward
agreement, it’s still worth being aware of their existence. Forwards are priced
in terms of (expected) interest rate differentials between two currencies. For
example, if expected Eurozone interest rates are higher than expected US
interest rates for the period of time that the forward contract is outstanding,
then the forward price for the EUR/USD will reflect a higher exchange rate
(i.e., a more highly valued euro relative to the dollar) in the future. As
(expectations of) interest rates change over time, so do forward rates. This
structure makes it easy for banks to underwrite forward contracts, because
they can immediately hedge their exposure through the credit markets.
The downside of this pricing mechanism is that forward prices are of limited
value when it comes to forecasting exchange rate movements in the spot
market. The one exception to this rule is the Non-Deliverable Forward
(NDF). These contracts are used for currencies that are governed by strict
capital controls and whose trading is often severely restricted. While priced
in terms of exotic currencies, NDFs are settled in US dollars (or another
major currency), rather than in the underlying currency. NDFs theoretically
are based on interest rate differentials, but in practice, they may reflect
market expectations for future exchange rates. For example, trading in the
Chinese yuan—especially offshore trading—is severely restricted by the
Chinese government. Those that want to speculate on or hedge exposure to
the yuan are thus unable to execute traditional forward agreements because

Forex for Beginners 47
they don’t have access to enough yuan to settle the contracts. Instead, they
turn to NDFs and settle the contracts in US dollars, based on the difference
between the USD/CNY spot price and the contracted forward rate.
Since the parties to a Chinese yuan NDF contract also lack access to Chinese
credit markets and deposit accounts, Chinese yuan NDFs (and most NDFs,
for that matter) tend to reflect expectations for the future USD/CNY
exchange rate rather than expected interest rates. Furthermore, since
speculators are limited in their ability to bet directly on the yuan, they will
often turn to NDFs as a good proxy for such a bet. Reporters often quote
NDF rates in news articles (on the yuan) as an indication of market
expectations for the direction of the USD/CNY rate.
Swaps
Recall from Figure 2-14 that swaps represent the bulk of all forex
transactions. There are a handful of different kinds of swaps that fall under
the umbrella of foreign exchange trading, but they can generally be classified
as either forex swaps or currency swaps. Forex swaps involve the exchange
of two currencies on a given date at a given rate and the reverse exchange of
the same two currencies at a later date and a different rate (Figure 2-16).
Figure 2-16. Structure of USD/EUR forex swap
Mainly financial institutions, speculators, and central banks use forex swaps.
Financial institutions enter into forex swap agreements for the primary
purpose of altering the dates on their foreign currency liabilities. For
example, if a financial institution already has an existing forward agreement

48 Chapter 2 | What Are Your Options?
to exchange dollars for euros, but wishes to push the maturity date back by a
month, it can execute a one-month USD/EUR forex swap. Forex brokers,
meanwhile, rely on forex swaps for accounting purposes. With the use of a
one-day tom/next forex swap, a broker can convert all of its clients’ balances
into the home currency at the end of each trading day and reconvert them
(with interest) the following day. Speculators use swaps in the same way as
forwards—to make bets on future exchange rates.
Central banks, finally, utilize forex swaps for liquidity purposes. During the
credit crisis, for example, the Federal Reserve Bank opened swap lines with a
dozen of the world’s central banks in order to ease a sudden worldwide
shortage of US dollars. In this way, foreign central banks were able to obtain
enough US dollars to fulfill domestic demand and reduce rapid devaluation
in their home currencies. When the liquidity crisis subsided, these dollars
could then be reconverted into their home currencies per the Fed’s swap
agreements. Sure enough, Fed liquidity swaps have declined from a peak of
$582 billion in the fall of 2008 to nil today.7
Currency swaps (also known as cross-currency basis swaps) are slightly
more complicated, and therefore much less common than forex swaps. Per
Figure 2-17, a currency swap agreement involves the exchange of principal
and interest payments denominated in two different currencies between two
parties.
7 Federal Reserve Economic Data (FRED), Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis, Board of
Governors of the Federal Reserve, “Central Bank Liquidity Swaps Held by the Federal
Reserve: All Maturities,” accessed April 19, 2012, http://research.stlouisfed.org
/fred2/series/SWPT?rid=20.

Forex for Beginners 49
Figure 2-17. Structure of USD/EUR currency swap
The principal function of currency swaps is to enable two entities located in
two different countries to borrow in foreign currencies at home-currency
interest rates. They are of the most use to multinational companies and
institutional investors to fund foreign direct investments and portfolio
investments, respectively.
The credit default swap (CDS) is also relevant to currency traders (though it
is not technically categorized as a forex transaction). A CDS functions as an
insurance policy against the possibility of a bond default. A buyer of a CDS
must pay both an upfront premium and annual premiums to the writer, who
in turn is contractually obligated to pay compensation in the event of default
on an underlying credit instrument. The upfront insurance premium is
determined by the market, and denominated in basis points (equal to 1/100 of
1%). From this upfront premium, it is possible to deduce the market's
estimation of default probability. Per Figure 2-18, a buyer of a CDS on a
five-year Greek government bond would pay an upfront insurance premium
of 5,900 basis points ($5.9 million) on every $10 million of debt that he
wants to insure. This corresponds to a 98% probability of default. A buyer of
an equivalent CDS on five-year US Treasury bonds, in contrast, would pay
only 45 basis points ($45,000), implying a 4% chance of default.
Figure 2-18. Comparison of credit default swap rates, 2009–Present (Source: Bloomberg)

50 Chapter 2 | What Are Your Options?
The CDS was originally conceived as a hedging tool, but has since evolved
into a big source of income for the financial institutions that underwrite them,
and is popular among speculators. CDS rates are particularly interesting to
forex traders for two main reasons. First, they serve as an excellent indication
of default expectations, compared to bond rates and other metrics. Second,
they are useful for gauging ebbs and flows in investor risk perceptions,
pertaining both to individual currencies and the overall market. Simply, when
CDS rates spike upward, it is both a reflection and a driver of risk aversion.
Futures
Forex futures are conceptually similar to forex forwards in that they allow
parties to lock in a future exchange rate for a particular currency pair. Unlike
forwards, however, futures contracts trade through centralized exchanges
(rather than directly between two parties) and are governed by a set of
standardized terms. Contracts can expire only at the end of a quarter (on the
third Wednesday of March, June, September, and December), notional
amounts are fixed for each currency pair, and terms are virtually the same for
every contract.
In addition, futures contracts are marked-to-market, which is to say that cash
changes hands between counterparties every day, rather than only on the date
of maturity. By way of example, consider a party that purchased a futures
contract that obligates it to buy 100,000 euros at a rate of $1.40 per euro
three months from today. Now let’s say that today’s rate is $1.35 per euro. If
tomorrow, the EUR/USD rate appreciates to $1.36 per euro, then the value of
the futures contract will change, and the buyer will receive an immediate
payment from the counterparty. In contrast, an investor who makes a bet on
the EUR/USD in the spot market would only realize an actual gain or loss
upon selling the currency.
This kind of continuous back-and-forth system of payments eliminates
credit/counterparty risk and makes futures contracts arguably safer than
forwards. In addition, since money changes hands daily, both parties are
implicitly “even” upon the maturity of the contract, and (in most cases)
physical delivery of currency (per the terms of the agreement) is
unnecessary. On the other hand, the risk that monetary losses may be
experienced prior to expiration is a risk that is intrinsic to forex futures
contracts and must be taken into account.

Forex for Beginners 51
Futures are especially well suited to directional bets on exchange rates
because they are priced in terms of a broad array of factors—not just in terms
of interest rate differentials, as are forex forwards. In other words, if the
current EUR/USD rate is 1.38 and the six-month futures price is 1.45, the
implication is that the markets collectively believe that the euro will
appreciate by seven cents against the US dollar over the next six months.
Forex futures are traded on a handful of exchanges, including the Tokyo
Financial Exchange, Intercontinental Exchange, and NYSE Euronext. The
vast majority of trading, however, is conducted electronically on the Chicago
Mercantile Exchange (CME), which offers futures contracts for more than 20
different currencies and 40 unique pairs, and processes more than $100
billion in contract volume every day. Traders can also make bets on volatility
and trade non-standard contract sizes using CME E-Micro Forex Futures.
Forex futures trading activity is dominated by speculators. At the same time,
futures also serve an important practical function—known as hedging—for
both investors and corporations. Hedging allows participants in the forex
market to limit their exposure to currency fluctuations. For example, a US
company that expects to receive €100 million in three months can lock in an
exchange rate for that payment today. If the actual spot rate is higher than the
contracted rate when the futures contract expires, then the company will have
saved itself money. Of course, if the dollar declines over the next three
months, the corporation must ultimately accept a less favorable exchange
rate. In this case, it would have been better for the company to convert the
€100 million into US dollars only after it had received the money. At the
very least, however, there is something to be said for the fact that the
company eliminated any uncertainty (also known as risk) by locking in an
exchange rate in advance, and one could therefore argue that the hedge
fulfilled its purpose.
Options
Forex options represent the smallest component of the forex market. After an
explosive rise over the course of the last decade, growth in volume has
slowed, and options now account for a mere 5% of overall daily forex
turnover.
An option is unique in the financial world, because it carries a choice (i.e.,
the “right”), rather than an outright obligation, to buy or sell a given financial
asset. Specifically, a forex call option gives the buyer the right to buy one

52 Chapter 2 | What Are Your Options?
currency pair, at a given exchange rate, on or before a pre-determined date.
Conversely, a forex put option gives the buyer the right to sell a currency
pair, again at a given rate, on or before a pre-determined date. In exchange
for this right, the buyer must pay a premium to the seller of the option, who
in turn has the obligation to honor the terms of the option if/when the buyer
chooses to exercise his or her right.
American-style options allow the buyer to execute his or her right to buy or
sell at any time on or before the expiration date. European-style options,
however, only support execution at the date of expiry. With Asian-style
options (which are not particularly common), the payoff depends on the
average exchange rate during a given period of time. This is designed to
prevent surges in volatility around the date of expiration from significantly
influencing the profit/loss from the option. There are also dozens of other
iterations, which, alas, are beyond the scope of this book.
Forex options are also unique in that they can inherently be seen as both put
and call options, regardless of how they are denominated. While a call option
to buy shares in Microsoft can only be interpreted as just that, a call option to
buy euros for dollars can also be seen as a put option to sell dollars for euros.
Unfortunately, this complicates pricing, because certain variables (namely
interest rates) for two different assets need to be taken into account.
With most other types of forex securities, there is simply a market price. For
example, if I absolutely must exchange dollars for euros in March 2013, I
have no choice but to pay the market price for the corresponding futures
price. If the futures rate is $1.50, then $1.50 is what I must agree to pay in the
future in order to lock in a rate today.
With a forex option, in contrast, I can choose the so-called strike price. For
example, if the current EUR/USD exchange rate is $1.40, I can buy a March
2013 call option for $1.30, $1.35, $1.40, $1.45, $1.50, etc. The price of the
option (also known as the premium) will depend on the relationship between
the strike price and the spot price. When the underlying exchange rate (also
known as the spot price) exceeds the strike price for a call option, it is said
that the option is in the money. When the strike price exceeds the spot price,
the option is out of the money, and when the two are roughly the same, it can
be said that the option is at the money. The opposite is necessarily true for a
put option. Since currencies fluctuate constantly, the relationship between the
exchange rate and the strike price (and hence the price of the option) must

Forex for Beginners 53
also change continuously. An option that is in the money today might be out
of the money tomorrow.
These relationships should be made clear by Figure 2-19 below. One who
buys an out-of-the-money call will realize a loss (in the form of the premium
that he or she paid) until the underlying exchange rate exceeds the strike
price by a margin equal to the premium that he or she paid. Beyond this
point, the greater the appreciation of the underlying rate, the greater the value
of the option will be. Naturally, the opposite is true for the party that
underwrites the call option. As long as the actual exchange rate remains
below the strike price, the upfront premium paid by the buyer represents
profit. A massive appreciation in the underlying exchange rate, however,
would expose the buyer to significant losses. Meanwhile, the buyer of a put
option will only earn a profit if the exchange rate depreciates. The seller of
that put option can pocket the upfront premium, but will be exposed to losses
in the event of depreciation.
Figure 2-19. Profit/loss for various options

54 Chapter 2 | What Are Your Options?
Participants in the options market typically use a variation of the Black-
Scholes model (also known as the Garman Hagen model) as a basis for
setting prices. Suffice it to say that this model is extraordinarily complex, and
is based on the following variables: spot exchange rate, strike price, time
until expiration, volatility, and interest rate differential. Alas, since volatility
isn’t known in advance, traders actually must approach the model in a
backwards fashion. In other words, the market will set a price for each option
agreement, from which the implied volatility can be induced.
Options are naturally useful for hedging purposes. For example, let’s say you
have an open USD/EUR position and you are concerned that a large
downside loss would wipe out all of your profits. By paying a small
“insurance” premium associated with an out-of-the money put, you could
effectively protect yourself from the possibility of a sudden downside
movement. A corporation might have the opposite problem, if it thinks that a
surge in overseas Christmas sales might leave it with a big chunk of euros.
Instead of executing a forward contract (which would leave it with the
obligation to make an exchange of euros for dollars), it might instead buy a
USD/EUR option. If its European sales fulfill expectations, the corporation
will be protected from an adverse move in the USD/EUR by its forex
options. If Christmas sales disappoint, it will have forfeited the option’s
premium, but at least it won’t be forced into converting currency that it never
received. As with futures contracts, the majority of forex options contracts
are never exercised, and do not result in the actual delivery of the underlying
currency.
Options are also attractive to speculators because they support complex
trading strategies at costs that are lower than those offered in the spot market.
For example, it might cost $100,000 in the spot market to bet that the US
dollar will appreciate against the euro, but it might cost only $5,000 to make
the same bet in the options market! Moreover, by combining options with
different strike prices and different expiration dates, it’s possible to construct
very particular trading strategies that target very specific price movements.
For example, you can use options to bet that the market will trade flat (i.e.,
without volatility). Instead, you could bet on volatility and simultaneously
buy/sell a put and a call option in a way that will yield profits if the exchange
rate makes a big move in either direction, but a loss if the market trades flat.
In Chapter 7, I will explore some of these forex-trading strategies in greater
detail.

Forex for Beginners 55
Conclusion
If the possibilities seem overwhelming, consider that the majority of retail
forex investors stick to trading ETFs or major currency pairs in the spot
market. While such a choice curtails possibility and carries limitations, it
greatly simplifies the decision-making process. Ultimately, forex can be as
simple or as complex as you’d like. If you want to trade exotic currency
pairs, rare types of options, or even swaps, there are plenty of brokers that
will be more than happy to facilitate such trades for you. If you were initially
attracted to forex by its lure of simplicity, however, it’s probably best to stick
to the 100 or so currency pairs that most retail brokers offer, or to a
comparably-sized array of currency ETFs.

56 Chapter 2 | What Are Your Options?

C H A P T E R
3
What Makes
Currencies
Move?
An Exploration of the Key Forces
That Cause Currencies to Fluctuate
A popular currency pair might fluctuate in price 18,000 times per day, and by
10%–20% per year.1 This implies not only a constant shift in the
supply/demand equilibrium for that currency pair, but also continuous
changes in the financial-economic relationship between those currencies. In
this chapter, I will introduce a framework for understanding these
fluctuations, both in the short term and the long term.
Fixed vs. Floating
You should recall from the discussion of history in Chapter 1 that fluctuating
currencies are actually a modern economic development. In fact, there are
still a handful of currencies that are fixed by their central banks and fluctuate
1 International Monetary Fund (IMF), “International Capital Markets,” World Economic
and Financial Surveys, September 1998, www.imf.org/external/pubs/ft/icm
/icm98/pdf/file01.pdf.

58 Chapter 3 | What Makes Currencies Move?
only slightly, if at all. There are currently more than 50 currencies that fall
into this category, most of which are issued by countries in the Middle East,
Africa, or the Caribbean region, and are of little consequence to the global
economy.
The advantage of dealing in currencies with fixed exchange rates is stability.
For example, it is much easier for importers and exporters to make long-term
business decisions if they know with reasonable certainty what their
respective home currencies will be worth (relative to other currencies) five
years from now. More to the point, an artificially cheap currency provides an
invaluable boon to domestic exporters, which are able to compete at more
favorable terms with exporters from other countries.
The main disadvantage of a fixed currency is that it deprives the issuing
central bank of monetary independence. In order to uphold a currency peg, a
central bank must closely align its monetary policy with the currency to
which it is fixed in order to prevent disequilibrium and consequent unwanted
attention from speculators. In addition, currency pegs are very expensive to
maintain. Central banks must buy hundreds of billions of dollars (or an
equivalent amount of another major currency) on the open market every year
in order to constantly preserve the peg. They must further reinforce this peg
with strict capital controls so as to limit the impact of inflows and outflows
of capital on the exchange rate.
In most cases, currency pegs are extremely controversial because they
promote global economic imbalances. For example, China’s economic rise
and the United States’ growing trade deficit have been blamed on the fixing
of the Chinese yuan to the US dollar. (It has also been the subject of a tense
dispute between the two countries, and could eventually ignite a full-scale
trade war!) As a result, currency pegs are mainly used by countries with
unstable economies. The lone exceptions to this rule are Hong Kong (whose
importance as a trading hub dictates that its currency be pegged to the US
dollar), Denmark (which is part of the EU and whose krone is fixed to the
euro), and Saudi Arabia (where the linking of the dinar to the US dollar
ensures that fluctuations in the forex market don’t impact its oil export
revenues).
Currencies with fixed exchange rate regimes are naturally of little interest to
currency investors. That’s not to say that countries with fixed currencies are
not worth investing in, but rather that it doesn’t make much sense to take a

Forex for Beginners 59
speculative position in a currency when you have reason to believe that it
won’t move much over the next few years.
Technically, fixed currencies will still fluctuate against the currencies to
which they are not pegged. For example, the Danish krone still rises and falls
against the dollar, pound, etc., even as it remains fixed against the euro
(Figure 3-1). Still, it makes more sense to trade the USD/EUR than the
USD/DKK, due to higher liquidity and lower spreads.
Figure 3-1. The Danish krone (DKK) is pegged to the euro but floats against the US dollar
Managed Floats
The rest of the world’s major and minor currencies are governed by floating
exchange rate regimes, which means that they rise and fall in accordance
with market forces. In practice, however, it makes more sense to classify all
exchange rate regimes as managed floats because central banks claim
ultimate authority over their respective currencies. Indeed, central banks can
and do intervene in the forex markets from time to time in order to influence
exchange rates, and they are often successful in the short term in preventing
their currencies from rising.
The Swiss National Bank (SNB), for example, spent $200 billion in 2009 in
an attempt to hold the Swiss franc at the arbitrary level of €1.50 EUR/CHF.
After nine months of success, however, it was overwhelmed by the weight of
the forex markets (and a $20 billion loss) and stopped intervening. Other
central banks “tinker” with their exchange rates indirectly, by imposing
capital controls (Brazil) or by printing money and injecting it into financial
markets (United States). In any event, no central bank is actually
disinterested in its exchange rate, notwithstanding all of the rhetoric about

60 Chapter 3 | What Makes Currencies Move?
“free markets.” From time to time, almost every central bank takes steps that
directly or indirectly impact the relative value of their respective currencies.
China takes this practice to an extreme. While it officially abolished its fixed
exchange rate regime in 2005, its central bank has continued to intervene in
the forex markets daily on behalf of the yuan. In the process, China has
amassed more than $3 trillion in foreign exchange reserves and slowed the
yuan’s inevitable upward climb to a mere crawl.
Exchange Rate Theory
There is a large number of financial economists and a tremendous body of
literature devoted to the study of exchange rate theory. The goal has always
been to connect specific economic variables with fluctuations in exchange
rates. Unfortunately, there are too many currency pairs and too many
variables to construct a unified theory of exchange rates. In addition, the
currency markets are confounded by the role of speculators, who may not
trade rationally, overemphasizing certain variables at the expense of others.
Finally, currency markets and economic developments tend to be
autocatalytic, which is to say that they drive each other in a chicken-vs.-egg
relationship. For example, a change in the EUR/USD rate might cause the
balance of trade to shift between the Eurozone and the United States, which
in turn can cause the exchange rate to adjust further, and so on. As you can
imagine, it is difficult for economic theories to capture this two-way
causality.
Still, research has shown that the theories laid out below go at least part of
the way toward explaining why currencies rise and fall against each other
over time.
Purchasing Power Parity
The study of exchange rates begins with the theory of purchasing power
parity (PPP), which states that exchange rates should adjust so as to equalize
price levels in two countries. For example, let’s pretend that the microchip is
the only product that is traded between the United States and the Eurozone. If
the price of a microchip is $15 in the United States but €30 in the Eurozone,
you would expect the EUR/USD equilibrium exchange rate to be 2
EUR/USD. Otherwise, there would be opportunities for arbitrage (i.e.,

Forex for Beginners 61
buying microchips in the United States and reselling them for a surefire
profit in the Eurozone).
The Economist has taken this idea to a comical extreme by comparing the
price of McDonald’s Big Mac hamburgers across different countries and
using the results as a basis for assessing whether their respective currencies
are undervalued or overvalued relative to the US dollar. It has even attempted
to control for changes in economic size. As you can see from Figure 3-2, the
price of a Big Mac in Brazil is 50% higher than in the United States, and
150% higher when differences in labor and production costs are controlled.
The implication is that the Brazilian real is 50%–150% overvalued, relative
to the US dollar.
Figure 3-2. Big Mac Index: Local currency over/undervaluation against the US dollar2
If you’re rolling your eyes at the simplicity of this idea, rest assured that you
are not alone. There are many reasons—such as differences in relative wages,
transportation costs, import and export barriers, etc.—that would cause the
price of microchips (and Big Macs!) to differ between the United States and
other countries. In addition, there are billions of goods and services that are
traded between the United States and the Eurozone, so you clearly wouldn’t
expect the EUR/USD to adjust every time a disparity in hamburger prices
emerges.
Consequently, PPP theory has been tweaked to take into account a basket of
goods and services (instead of just one) and relative changes in prices (rather
2 “Beefed-Up Burgernomics,” The Economist, July 30, 2011, www.economist.com/node
/21524811.

62 Chapter 3 | What Makes Currencies Move?
than absolute levels). For example, if price inflation rates are compared
across two countries, one would expect that a country with high inflation
would suffer currency depreciation, so as to maintain exchange rate
equilibrium. To take this idea one step further, let’s assume that prices are
rising at an annual rate of 10% in the United States and 0% in Japan. All else
being equal, one would expect the US dollar to depreciate 10% (on an
annualized basis) against the yen in order to maintain equilibrium.
In fact, this is exactly what has happened. Over the last two decades, the
Japanese yen has appreciated considerably against the US dollar in spite of
economic stagnation in Japan. The reason for this is undoubtedly connected
to Japanese price stability. Whereas US price inflation has averaged more
than 3% annually for the last 25 years, Japanese inflation has averaged less
than .5%. Over the same period of time, the Japanese yen has doubled in
value against the US dollar. When you plot these two series (Figure 3-3), you
can see that the USD/JPY rate has depreciated almost perfectly in accordance
with purchasing power parity! As is also evident, however, exchange rates
are significantly more volatile than prices, and it can take many years for
inflation differentials to become fully reflected in relative currency prices.
Figure 3-3. USD/JPY rate versus US/Japan inflation differential
At the very least, the model of PPP can be used to put trade disputes into
context. For example, US politicians have long alleged that the Chinese yuan
is significantly undervalued against the US dollar and is appreciating at an
unsatisfactorily slow rate. However, PPP analysis implies that this isn’t
entirely true. For example, in 2004, the US Congress proposed legislation

Forex for Beginners 63
that would punish Chinese imports unless the Chinese yuan was permitted to
appreciate by 25%-40%, the amount by which economists conjectured that
the yuan was undervalued. Shortly thereafter, the Chinese government
acceded to this demand, and the yuan began a steady course of appreciation.
In 2011, the US Congress renewed calls for punitive legislation on the
grounds that the yuan hadn’t appreciated by a large enough margin. To be
sure, the Chinese currency had nominally risen only 23%. On an inflation-
adjusted basis, however, it had already risen by more than 30%, well within
the band targeted by Congress. As can be seen in Figure 3-4, this shows that
the argument in favor of further appreciation is fairly flimsy.
Figure 3-4. Chinese yuan appreciation has met expectations, when inflation (also known as
PPP) is taken into account
Covered Interest Rate Parity
The theory of covered interest rate parity begins where purchasing power
parity ends. In accordance with the equation below, covered interest rate
parity holds that if the US interest rate (i ) is higher than the interest rate for
$
another currency (i ), then the expected future exchange rate (F) should be
c t
lower than the spot rate (S) in order to maintain equilibrium.
t
For example, if the US benchmark interest rate is 5%, the corresponding
Eurozone rate is 10%, and the current EUR/USD rate is $1.50, you would
expect the US dollar to appreciate 4.5% against the euro (to $1.43) in order
to maintain interest rate parity and eliminate the possibility of arbitrage.

64 Chapter 3 | What Makes Currencies Move?
(1 + 5%) = $1.43/$1.5 * (1 + 10%)
You may recall from our earlier discussion of derivatives that this model also
serves as the basis for pricing forex forward agreements.
In theory, covered interest rate parity should be a good model for
understanding exchange rates because the financial markets can adjust
instantaneously to actual and expected changes in interest rates. With
purchasing power parity, in contrast, it might take years for differences in
price inflation to be reflected in international trade patterns, and to be priced
into exchange rates.
In fact, covered interest rate parity has been shown to hold in the absence of
capital controls and high transaction costs. A corollary, known as the
International Fisher Effect, hypothesizes that an investor will only hold a
depreciating currency to the extent that the interest rate (differential) is
enough to compensate him. You can see from Figure 3-5 below, that the
actual GBP/USD rate moves inversely with the UK/US interest rate
differential (or directly with the US/UK differential). For example, it didn’t
take long for the GBP/USD rate to fall following the Federal Reserve Bank’s
cut in the federal funds rate (FFR) in the summer of 2007. The pound
recovered slightly in 2008 when the Bank of England followed suit and
similarly cut interest rates, which is exactly what the theory of interest rate
parity predicted would happen!
Figure 3-5. GBP/USD exchange rate versus US/UK inflation differential

Forex for Beginners 65
In the short term, however, this relationship is sometimes turned on its head.
For example, an investor that is long the Brazilian real (against the dollar)
probably doesn’t care about changes in the price of a hamburger in Brazil
(relative to the United States) because he isn’t planning on actually spending
the real on anything tangible. However, he cares very much about Brazilian
interest rates during the time that he holds the real because that will directly
impact the return that he earns on his investment.
Thus, rising interest rates may actually be accompanied by an inflow of
speculative capital, even if they are a harbinger of long-term inflation. As is
apparent from Figure 3-6, the interest rate differential between Brazil and
Japan has hovered above 10% for most of the last decade. During this period
of time, the Brazilian real has notched some impressive gains against the
Japanese yen, which is the opposite of what covered interest rate parity
would have predicted! These gains are reinforced by a phenomenon in which
declines in the interest rate differential seem to correspond with a decline in
the BRL/JPY exchange rate, as though investors will only hold the real when
interest rates are high. In other words, Brazilian speculators have targeted the
real because of—rather than in spite of—its high interest rates.
Figure 3-6. BRL/JPY exchange rate versus Brazil/Japan inflation differential
Monetary Theory
Monetarists approach exchange rate theory in terms of currency supply. If
the money supply of Country A rises dramatically relative to that of Country

66 Chapter 3 | What Makes Currencies Move?
B, monetarists hold that, all else being equal, Country A should experience
currency depreciation.
When thinking about monetary theory, it is important to keep in mind that a
nation’s money supply is controlled directly by its central bank, which uses
open market operations, reserve requirement ratios, and interest rates to
control its country’s money supply. If a central bank wants more currency to
circulate, it can buy bonds on the open market, lower interest rates, and/or
increase the ratio of deposits that banks can lend out. When these measures
prove to be ineffective, the central bank can inject cash directly into the
financial system through open-market operations.
During the 2008 credit crisis, for example, most of the world’s central banks
engaged in variations of quantitative easing, whereby they printed money
and used the proceeds to buy mortgage-backed securities, government bonds,
and other assets. The Federal Reserve Bank was especially aggressive,
cumulatively printing more than $2.5 trillion in new money. Some currency
analysts have connected this to the multi-year decline of the US dollar
relative to the other major currencies (Figure 3-7).
Figure 3-7. US dollar Trade-Weighted Index, Money Supply, and National Debt
Now, why would central banks deliberately manipulate the supply and
demand of their respective country’s money? Sometimes they do so in order
to influence the value of their respective currencies. Known as intervention,
this process typically involves printing money to buy an opposing currency.

Forex for Beginners 67
For example, if Japan decides that it wants to depress the value of the yen,
the Bank of Japan will print a substantial amount of yen and immediately
exchange this lot for US dollars, such that the forex markets have no choice
but to adjust the JPY/USD exchange rate downward.
Those who passed their college Macroeconomics 101 course know that a
sudden increase in the domestic money supply will have unintended
monetary consequences, namely inflation. All else being equal, the 5%
increase in the Japanese money supply in this case should cause a 5% across-
the-board increase in the prices of all Japanese products. To counter this
effect, central banks sterilize their intervention by issuing an offsetting
amount of bonds so as to draw a proportional amount of money out of the
economy. As for the chunk of foreign currency that they bought on the open
market (US dollars, in this case), this is hoarded by the central bank in the
form of foreign exchange reserves. You can see from Figure 3-7 below that,
in spite of financial and economic liberalization, central bank intervention
(implied by growth in forex reserves) in the forex markets has expanded
dramatically over the last decade. China has taken this practice to an
extreme; in a never-ending effort to control the ascent of the yuan, China has
amassed $3 plus trillion in reserves!
Figure 3-8. Central bank accumulation of forex reserves3
One aspect of intervention that is important to take into account is the
inherent impact it has on other currencies. In other words, a currency cannot
just depreciate; it must depreciate relative to one or more other currencies. A
3 Bloomberg, “China Monthly Foreign Exchange Reserves,” www.bloomberg.com
/quote/CNGFOREX:IND/chart; IMF, “Currency Composition of Official Foreign
Exchange Reserves,” www.imf.org/external/np/sta/cofer/eng/cofer.pdf.

68 Chapter 3 | What Makes Currencies Move?
central bank has two objectives when selecting the currencies that will offset
its intervention. Primarily, it wants to maximize the economic benefit of its
intervention. If the Bank of Japan were to depreciate the yen relative to the
Polish zloty, it would have little impact on the Japanese economy because
Poland and Japan are not major trading partners. By targeting the euro or the
US dollar—as is most common—the Bank of Japan ensures that its export
sector will enjoy a direct benefit from a weaker yen.
Secondly, a central bank must act as a discerning investor since any currency
that it buys will necessarily end up on its balance sheet. Central banks don’t
want to hold cash, which loses value over time as a result of inflation.
Instead, they select liquid investments, such as sovereign debt and money
market instruments. A decision to buy the US dollar is thus a vote of
confidence in the creditworthiness of the US government and US financial
institutions. As US capital markets are probably the deepest, most liquid, and
most transparent in the world, it is perhaps unsurprising that the US dollar
remains the top choice of the world’s central banks, accounting for more than
60% of all foreign exchange reserves. Per Figure 3-9, the euro is in a distant
second place.
Figure 3-9. Central bank accumulation of forex reserves4
4 IMF, “Currency Composition of Currency Composition of Official Foreign Exchange
Reserves,” www.imf.org/external/np/sta/cofer/eng/cofer.pdf.

Forex for Beginners 69
Portfolio Balancing Model
The portfolio balancing model is basically an extension of monetary models,
but is expanded to include all debt and equity instruments and all participants
in the forex market.
Adherents to this model argue that a currency is an investable asset, like any
other, and that foreign currency should represent a component of any well-
balanced portfolio. Thus, in the context of the portfolio balancing model, an
exchange rate merely represents the equilibrium between the supply of a
country’s investable assets and foreign demand. For example, adherents to
the portfolio balancing model would argue that the explosion in US debt
shown in Figure 3-7 contributed significantly to increasing the supply of US
investable assets. Since there wasn’t a proportional increase in foreign
demand for US assets, the dollar has necessarily declined.
The portfolio balancing model also attempts to take domestic demand for
financial assets into account. For example, consider that Japan’s sovereign
debt is the highest in the world, and currently exceeds 160% of gross
domestic product (GDP). However, the yen is one of the strongest currencies.
How can this paradox be reconciled? The answer is that 95% of Japanese
sovereign debt is held by domestic savers.
On the other hand, Switzerland is generally known for its fiscal and monetary
prudence, which has resulted in an undersupply of Swiss franc currency and
more importantly, Swiss franc–denominated financial assets. At the same
time, investor interest in Switzerland and the franc is arguably in excess of
what an economy of that size would normally merit. In order for equilibrium
to be achieved, a portfolio balancing theorist would argue that an
appreciation in the franc was unavoidable.
Trade and Investment Flows
According to the Continuous Linked Settlement Bank, forex trades can be
netted daily with 98% efficiency. In other words, the vast majority of forex
market activity is offsetting, and for only 2% of trades does cash need to
exchange hands. This is because most forex trading is short-term and also
because brokers generally dislike holding overnight positions. That’s not to
say that this 98% of trading has no bearing on exchange rates. Rather, it
means that 2% or so of foreign exchange is long-term (or at least longer than

70 Chapter 3 | What Makes Currencies Move?
1 day). These trades are driven more by international trade and cross-border
investment than they are by speculation and should reflect fundamental
(rather than technical) factors.
The rise in globalization and outsourcing has spawned record imbalances in
the global economy. As a result, the United States (as well as certain other
advanced economies) has experienced a trade deficit for most of the last
three decades—which is to say that its imports have consistently exceeded its
exports. This is depicted in Figure 3-10.
Figure 3-10. US balance of trade,5 net investment inflows6
5
However, there is another way of looking at the balance of trade that may
explain why the US trade balance has remained negative for so many years.
Consider first that a trade deficit is also known as a current account deficit,
which implies that the difference between exports (X) and imports (M) is
basically equal to the difference between domestic savings (S) and
investment (I).
5 FRED, U.S. Department of Commerce: Bureau of Economic Analysis, Census Bureau,
“Trade Balance: Goods and Services, Balance of Payments Basis,” updated April 12,
2012, http://research.stlouisfed.org/fred2/series/BOPGSTB?cid=125.
6 FRED, U.S. Department of Commerce: Bureau of Economic Analysis, “Foreign-Owned
Assets in the United States, Excluding Financial Derivatives,” updated March 14, 2012,
http://research.stlouisfed.org/fred2/series/BOPI?cid=127.

Forex for Beginners 71
X – M = S – I
It follows, then, that in the case of the United States, the long-term
disequilibrium between exports and imports can also be seen as a
disequilibrium between savings and investment. In fact, Benjamin Bernanke,
Chairman of the Federal Reserve Bank, has vehemently advanced the idea
that the US economy should not be faulted for importing much more than it
has exported. Instead, or so Bernanke argues, countries with limited domestic
opportunities for investment and propensities toward saving are at fault for
enabling these imbalances.
Yet another model holds that a country’s current account balance must equal
its capital account balance. The difference between exports and imports (or
savings and investment) will equal the net change in ownership in domestic
assets. A trade/current account deficit, then, implies a capital account
surplus. For every dollar flowing out of the United States because of trade,
another dollar is flowing in for purposes of investment. Sure enough, you can
see from Figure 3-10 that the US trade deficit has corresponded with a
proportionately large inflow of foreign investment capital.
The fact that the US trade deficit has not abated can thus be seen in terms of
the willingness of private investors and central banks abroad to keep buying
US assets. At a certain point, they will inevitably demand a higher risk
premium (in the form of a more favorable exchange rate), at which point the
dollar should decline, and both the current and capital accounts should finally
return to equilibrium. Until then, the United States will likely continue to
import more than it exports in the aggregate, and invest more than it saves.
Gross Domestic Product
The most basic measure of economic performance is gross domestic product
(GDP), which is the sum of all goods and services produced (read: bought
and sold) within a given country’s borders. There are various approaches to
calculating GDP, all of which use different inputs to arrive at what should be
the same number.
The income approach is exactly as it sounds—a sum of all income earned
within a country’s borders by individuals and businesses/corporations. The
theory is that the existence of income implies the production of goods and
services. While generally accurate, the income approach is not very useful
for analytical purposes, and it has been superseded by the expenditure

72 Chapter 3 | What Makes Currencies Move?
approach, which divides GDP into four component parts: consumption,
investment, government spending, and the balance of trade.
For most advanced economies, consumption accounts for the largest share of
GDP (over 70% in the case of the United States) and has come to be seen as
a barometer of overall economic health. (That much of this consumption is
fuelled by debt is not a factor in GDP calculations.) Consumption is further
broken into goods (durable and nondurable) and services, the latter of which
is the largest subcomponent of US GDP, as shown in Figure 3-11.
Figure 3-11. US GDP component parts and change over time
Investment refers to business investment in plant and equipment, and
inventory (goods and services that have been produced but not yet sold to
end users), as well as purchases of homes for residential use. You can see
from Figure 3-11 that residential investment has fallen by more than half in
the US as a result of the recent collapse in home prices.
As an aside, investment does not include the purchase and sale of financial
assets, of which a staggering $1 quadrillion in notional value changes hands
every year in the United States. Instead, the common gripe that the financial
sector occupies a disproportionately large share of the US economy refers to
“rents” (i.e., commissions, fees) that financial companies earn for their role
in packaging and facilitating the exchange of financial instruments. For

Forex for Beginners 73
instance, a $300,000 mortgage might only contribute $10,000 to GDP
(equivalent to the underwriting cost), while a single share of Google stock
that trades hands one hundred times over the course of a year might
contribute $500 to GDP in the form of broker commissions. In short, the
equity in Google and the mortgage on a home do not contribute to GDP in
and of themselves, and all economic value is derived from creating them and
facilitating their exchange.
Government spending, meanwhile, can be broken down among different
government levels and into different types of spending. Interest payments on
government debt, transfer payments (such as Medicare and Social Security),
and subsidies are not included, as they represent the movement of money
rather than the production of a good or service. It is only when the Medicaid
recipient visits a doctor, for example, that real economic activity is said to
have taken place.
The balance of trade—exports minus imports—represents the final
component of GDP. In accordance with the expenditure approach, at first
glance it would appear that a country that experiences a trade deficit would
incur a curtailment of its economic growth. A better way to conceptualize
this, however, would be to say that imports need to be subtracted from
consumption (or from the production of exports) in order to accurately
calculate GDP. In other words, the expenditure approach accounts for all
production and consumption before subtracting out the portion that was
sourced from outside the country.
On a related note, a country that runs a consistent trade deficit, such as the
United States, can still derive a net economic benefit from trade. That’s
because US companies earn tremendous profits on goods that are imported.
In fact, it’s common knowledge that only a small portion of the profit from
selling an imported good is earned by the manufacturer. The rest of the
markup is captured by the (US) companies that own the intellectual property,
handle marketing, sales and distribution, and so forth. Returning to the
example of the iPhone, one analysis concluded that it provides a tremendous
boon to the US economy, its contribution to the trade deficit notwithstanding.
There are a few additional facets of GDP of which you should be aware.
First, there is a distinction between GDP (gross domestic product) and GNP
(gross national product). The former refers only to economic activity that
takes place within a country’s borders, while the latter figure is used to
calculate all production by the citizens of a given country, regardless of

74 Chapter 3 | What Makes Currencies Move?
where they reside. For whatever reason, GDP is most commonly cited by the
media and is most likely to be used for comparative and analytical purposes.
Second, it is difficult to compare economies based on nominal GDP figures.
Due to differences in wage/price levels as well as distortions in exchange
rates, it might appear as though one economy is radically bigger than a
neighboring economy. For example, imagine if the price of a computer was
$500 in the United States and only $300 in Mexico. In this case, the sale of
one thousand computers would seem to make a bigger contribution to GDP
in the United States than it would in Mexico. Economists correct for such
price differentials by quoting GDP on the basis of purchasing power parity.
China, for instance, has a nominal GDP of approximately $5.9 trillion,
compared to $414 million for Norway. After adjusting for differences in PPP,
however, China’s nominal GDP rises to $10 trillion, while Norway’s GDP is
reduced to $277 million.
In practice, the financial markets usually don’t pay attention to nominal GDP
figures. They are more interested in relative changes, such as the percentage
by which a country’s GDP changes from quarter to quarter and from year to
year. Moreover, the percentage is always quoted in real terms, which is to
say that it is adjusted for inflation. If US GDP expanded 5% in 2010 and
price inflation was 2%, the resulting change in output was actually only 3%,
which needs to be taken into account when quoting GDP.
Keep in mind that while GDP does not directly bear on exchange rates, it
does exert a strong indirect influence on currencies. For example, a
strengthening economy will most likely create more opportunities for
portfolio and foreign direct investment and spur capital inflows. More output
should also lead to increased government tax revenues and a lower risk
associated with buying government bonds. Finally, that the persistent gap in
GDP growth between emerging economies and advanced economies (Figure
3-12) has corresponded with a similar gap in currency performance is not
purely coincidental.

Forex for Beginners 75
Figure 3-12. Comparison of GDP growth over time
Theory Meets Reality
A theoretical framework is useful for understanding exchange rates, but it
can only take you so far. That’s because exchange rates don’t adjust
automatically to changes in underlying economic conditions. Rather, they
must be adjusted by the market, which is really only an obtuse way of saying
that they must be adjusted by the participants of the forex market. In other
words, theory can explain where exchange rates should stand—but not
necessarily where they actually do stand.
Investors act immediately to price changes in certain economic fundamentals
into their exchange rate models. If the Federal Reserve Bank were to raise
interest rates, for example, US dollar forward exchange rates would
instantaneously decline in order for covered interest rate parity to be
maintained. The increase in interest rates would also trigger a decline in spot
exchange rates, as short-term investors lower expectations for future
exchange rates. This is what should happen. Of course, it’s also possible that
there would be no change in the spot rate if investors had already priced in
the rate hike. Or there could be an increase in the spot rate if short-term
speculators respond to the rate hike by transferring capital into higher-
yielding US securities.

76 Chapter 3 | What Makes Currencies Move?
Changes in other fundamentals will be reflected in exchange rates after a lag.
For example, when a trend in high inflation begins to take form, forward-
looking corporations will start to mull over changes in sourcing/production,
but it will take years before these changes are reflected in changing patterns
of trade, changes in money supply, etc. Shrewd individuals, however, might
respond to such future changes by purchasing currency today. As a result, the
spot exchange rate will also change today, even though the fundamentals
underlying such a change might not emerge for years!
Market Microstructure Analysis
In contrast to macroeconomic models, which only offer an explanation of
how economic variables should influence exchange rates without taking into
account how this process actually takes place, market microstructure analysis
looks at how real-life buy and sell orders actually drive prices. As such,
market microstructure analysis examines completed transactions only and
ignores the forces that may be driving the supply and demand behind them.
(This is a subtle distinction between macroeconomic models and market
microstructure analysis, but an important one.)
Market microstructure analyses have found that order flow is an important
variable in exchange rate determination in that it is unique from the
information that underlies it. In other words, the order flow is itself
informative. In fact, empirical studies have found that broker-dealers exert
some of the strongest short-term pull on prices. This finding is not altogether
surprising, since a broker almost always wants to offset all long and short
positions, especially at the end of every trading day. In order to achieve this,
he may have to adjust the bid/ask spread that he is offering in order to attract
more buyers or sellers. If a broker wants to neutralize a long EUR/USD
position, for example, he may raise the bid price in order to encourage more
EUR/USD sellers. If enough brokers find themselves in the same position, it
could create a shortage of euros and a sudden, seemingly inexplicable rise in
the EUR/USD rate. This is known as the inventory control effect.
Sometimes an unwanted position will be passed from broker to broker to
broker, around the entire forex market, until it reaches a counterparty that is
willing to hold it indefinitely. This phenomenon has been nicknamed the “hot
potato effect.” Along the way, its price may be bid up (or down) repeatedly.
This is a result of market inefficiency—the failure to find a perfectly
compatible buyer for every seller.

Forex for Beginners 77
Likewise, the asymmetric information effect occurs when a broker-dealer
receives a large directional order from a client (rather than from another
broker-dealer) and automatically assumes that the client is placing that order
because he has certain information that supports such a directional
movement. As a result, the broker-dealer will raise his prices in order to
discourage other clients from making the same directional bet. You could
also say that, in this way, the broker-dealer is hedging against the possibility
that he will be forced into taking an undesirably large one-sided position.
Technical Factors
The role of technical factors in exchange rates has long been disputed. The
Efficient Markets Hypothesis (EMH) argues that asset prices necessarily
reflect all available public information and adjust instantaneously to changes
in such information. As a result, adherents to this theory hold that asset prices
move randomly and that past prices provide no indication of future prices.
Technical analysts, on the other hand, counter that prices move in trends, that
the present mimics the past, and that (as a direct consequence of efficient
markets theory) fundamental analysis must necessarily also be of dubious
value. (In Chapter 4, I will explore the plausibility of technical analysis in
greater detail, but for now, let’s accept that there is indeed evidence of
detectable patterns in prices. Whether it is possible to profit from them is
certainly a different story, but suffice it to say that these patterns really do
exist.)
In fact, prices certainly appear to trade in trends, which seem to unify
otherwise random, back-and-forth spikes. Sometimes these trends are upward
or downward, while other times they are flat. Of course, a currency rate will
rarely move linearly; instead, it will move in a direction that is generally
identifiable, but then deviate from that direction frequently. In order for the
trend to be maintained, the price must revert back toward the mean from
time to time in order to eliminate opportunities for arbitrage. It often appears
that that every time there is a strong deviation in the price of a given
currency, traders quickly jump in and nudge that currency back toward the
trend line. For example, the Japanese yen appeared to move in a very clear,
upward trend against the dollar in the months leading up to the 2011
earthquake. Every time the yen deviated substantially from this trend line, it
appeared to run into support or resistance (indicated by the upper and lower
bounding lines in Figure 3-13) and quickly resumed its original path. This

78 Chapter 3 | What Makes Currencies Move?
trend was so strong that it remained perfectly intact following the twin
disruptions of an earthquake and a massive central bank intervention!
Figure 3-13. USD/JPY: Establishment of trend, disruption, and post-earthquake resumption
Economists have conjectured that these trends are caused by confirmation
bias, which refers to traders’ tendency to both overestimate the accuracy of
their models and to actively seek information from the market that justifies
their continued use of these models. In this way, trends can become self-
fulfilling, as they are spotted by technical analysts and then traded to
exhaustion. It is only when the actual rate becomes severely out of kilter with
the rate justified by economic fundamentals that a major price correction will
take place. In fact, economists have shown that this phenomenon can spur
both momentum in trend continuation and equally strong reversals. The fact
that central banks and their billion-dollar intervention chests are powerless to
break such trends is a testament to the strength of confirmation bias.
Market microstructure analysis might be able to shed additional light on
patterned fluctuations in forex prices, which appear to take place irrespective
of changes in underlying fundamentals. Trends, for example, might be a
result of feedback loops between broker-dealers and their customers. A
customer may initiate buying, to which a broker-dealer might respond by
raising his ask price, which in turn might generate more buying in
anticipation of even higher prices, and so on. A large deviation from the
underlying trend signifies that broker-dealers have aggregately developed a
large one-sided position. Consequently, broker-dealers may adjust their
prices to encourage orders in the opposite direction, and the deviation should
correct itself.
Returning to support and resistance, it is not difficult to understand why such
levels would exist and why they can be predicted with some degree of

Forex for Beginners 79
accuracy. Perhaps it’s because such levels tend to take place at round
numbers—the rounder the better! In the case of the USD/JPY, 78.5 might be
a major price point, 79 would be more important, and 80 would be the most
important! That’s because humans tend to think in terms of round numbers
and develop their forecasts accordingly. After all, who would bother
predicting that the yen will hit a wall at the precise level of USD/JPY
79.4387? Just like trend lines, these support and resistance levels can become
self-fulfilling and explain some of the short-term fluctuations in (forex)
markets.
Politics and Government
History has shown a positive correlation between political stability and
currency stability, but since most major currencies tend to have stable
governments, this relationship is usually taken for granted. When it comes to
emerging economies, however, don’t forget that every sudden regime
change, violent protest, and period of political instability can result in an
exodus of investors and capital flight. For example, when massive protests
erupted in Egypt in early 2011, the Egyptian pound spiked downward on
multiple occasions, as did the Egyptian asset markets (Figure 3-14).
Figure 3-14. Impact of political instability on USD/EGP rate
Of course, most political developments tend to be mundane. Elections may
bring changes in economic, fiscal, and tax policy. A newly elected politician
might be more of a protectionist than his predecessor. A conservative might
promise to cut spending. When the US Congress temporarily refused to raise
the federal debt ceiling in July 2011—a development that could have
potentially caused the United States to default on its sovereign debt

80 Chapter 3 | What Makes Currencies Move?
obligations—the currency markets preemptively sold the dollar. As soon as
the ceiling was raised, however, the dollar quickly recovered (Figure 3-15).
Figure 3-15. Impact of “US Debt Standoff” on (trade-weighted) US dollar
On a related note, the currency markets take fiscal policy very seriously.
Shifting political winds can bring deficit spending and an increase in debt. In
accordance with portfolio balancing theory, this increase in supply will result
in a depreciating currency, all else being equal. The ongoing Eurozone fiscal
crisis has illustrated this phenomenon perfectly, as reflected in the EUR/USD
chart shown in Figure 3-16.
Figure 3-16. Reflection of Eurozone fiscal crisis in EUR/USD
At the end of 2009, for example, as financial markets were moving past the
credit crisis, Ireland’s sovereign credit rating was downgraded. All of a
sudden, attention shifted to the burgeoning debt in Greece. Due to economic
decline and continuing budget deficits, it looked as if a full-blown Eurozone
crisis had arrived. Bailouts were hastily assembled, the Greek government
promised “austerity” in spending, and the euro stabilized. Before long,
however, investors began scrutinizing Spain and Portugal—which were
4

Forex for Beginners 81
suffering from similar problems—and credit downgrades and rising credit
default swap rates followed. The European Central Bank moved in to
stabilize the situation, providing liquidity and conducting stress tests on
banks, and the euro once again recovered. The very fact that these stress tests
were needed, however, unnerved investors as it signaled that the fiscal crisis
was erupting into a full-blown financial crisis. After all, a default on the
PIGS’ sovereign debt obligations would cripple the European banks that had
lent heavily to them during the boom years. More bailouts followed, and the
European Central Bank announced a surprise hike in interest rates, which
reassured investors and precipitated a rally behind the euro.
The crisis again took a turn for the worse at the end of 2011, as Greek
austerity plans had started to backfire and plans to further expand the bailout
fund were met with resistance. Going forward, it’s difficult to predict what
will happen, but at the very least, you can be sure that any and all economic
developments will be reflected in the currency markets.
News
News can be divided into two types: the unexpected and the scheduled.
Unexpected news developments—whether political, economic, financial, or
just plain newsworthy—can exert a massive tug on the forex markets. As the
news itself is unexpected, sometimes, so too is the response. When the story
of the 2011 earthquake in Japan first broke, the yen should have plummeted.
On the contrary, the Japanese yen rose to a record high as investors bet that
Japanese insurance companies would need to repatriate massive amounts of
yen to fund the country’s rebuilding efforts. This theory was quickly
abandoned, however, and the yen sank. Less than a week later, the world’s
major central banks announced a (surprise) historic intervention on behalf of
the yen, and the yen immediately fell by 5% in a single trading session.

82 Chapter 3 | What Makes Currencies Move?
Figure 3-17. USD/JPY: market response to 2011 earthquake
On the other hand, the release of most economic indicators takes place in
accordance with a fixed schedule—not the whims of statisticians. Given the
dozens of indicators that are released every day, it would be impossible for
the market to pay heed to all of them, especially since some are bound to be
contradictory. As for the handful that are deemed important, they will be
watched with bated breath. Investors will typically take up speculative
positions in advance of scheduled news releases and, immediately following,
it’s not uncommon for large price swings to occur as the implications of the
data are priced in. It matters not whether the data point was inherently good
or bad, but rather how it compared to expectations. For example, if US GDP
growth was measured at an amazing 5% but the consensus estimate was for
growth of 6%, the dollar could very well fall!
With both types of news, the market has a propensity to overshoot, hence the
expression, “Buy the rumor, sell the news.” The implication is that (forex)
market investors can get carried away, both before and after news releases. In
fact, overshooting is such a common phenomenon that economists have
incorporated it into exchange rate theory. Consider a central bank that cuts
interest rates, for example. In order to maintain short-term equilibrium, it
could be argued that it is in fact necessary for the spot rate to rise faster than
the forward rate. As prices rise over time (due to the interest rate cut), the
spot rate should slowly converge with the forward rate.
Correlations
Powerful correlations abound in the forex markets. As I explained in Chapter
2, the most precise correlations are in cross-rates. Since the dollar (and a
handful of other major currencies) tends to drive the forex markets, many

Forex for Beginners 83
cross-rates tend to move only insofar as to eliminate triangular arbitrage with
the US dollar. In other words, the THB/BRL rate is probably not fluctuating
independently because there is not enough direct transfer of Thai baht for
Brazilian real. In this case, understanding the THB/BRL rate is as simple as
obtaining quotes for the USD/BRL and USD/THB and simply calculating the
cross-rate.
There are also plenty of instances in which a comparatively unimportant
currency will take its cues from a related, more liquid currency. Or both
currencies might have similar fundamental profiles and move in tandem. The
Australian dollar and the New Zealand dollar are certainly correlated.
Emerging market currencies, especially those in the same region, tend to
mirror each other. The Mexican peso and the Brazilian real have come to
epitomize this kind of relationship, as seen in Figure 3-18.
Figure 3-18. Tight correlation between MXP and BRL
There are also correlations between the forex markets and other financial
markets. Sometimes, the USD/EUR will take its cues from equity markets,
which are a good proxy for investor risk appetite. So-called commodity
currencies may closely track prices for a specific commodity. The
performance of the South African rand, for instance, may mirror the price of
gold, while Australian dollar and Canadian dollar speculators have been
known to take their cues from a broad basket of commodity prices
(Figure 3-19).

84 Chapter 3 | What Makes Currencies Move?
Figure 3-19. AUD/USD mirrors commodity prices
Risk-Driven Trading
Over the last decade, a trend toward risk-based speculation has taken shape.
For example, in the years leading up to the 2008 financial crisis, the carry
trade had begun to define the forex markets. Speculators bought high-
yielding currencies against low-yielding currencies and pocketed the interest
rate spread. In order for this trade to be profitable, however, the underlying
exchange rate needed to remain basically stable. That’s because extreme
fluctuations make carry trades too risky, and in the worst case scenario, they
can completely wipe out returns.
With the collapse of Lehman Brothers and the inception of the global credit
crisis, an opposing trend immediately took hold; investors flocked to the least
risky assets denominated in the lowest-yielding (and theoretically least risky)
currencies—the yen, franc, and dollar. When stability returned to the
financial markets, investors were quick to transfer funds out of these
proverbial safe havens and back into higher-yielding currencies. Whenever
there was a minor crisis and/or a sudden uptick in volatility, the movement of
funds went into reverse. This cause-and-effect relationship has persisted
today, as is depicted in Figure 3-20. Here, it can be seen that rising/spiking
(falling) volatility in the forex markets often precedes an appreciation
(depreciation) in the Japanese yen.

Forex for Beginners 85
Figure 3-20. Volatility fluctuations and JPY/USD
Conclusion
All of the theoretical and observed forces that I introduced in this chapter go
part of the way toward explaining the fluctuations in forex markets.
However, economists have yet to come up with a unified framework that
takes all of these variables into account. The literature is filled with
contradictions (as are the theories themselves) and studies of explanatory
power have yielded conflicting results.
That’s not altogether surprising. The forex markets are dynamic and
complex, and no one would expect a solitary variable to be capable of
explaining all fluctuations, both large and small. From my point of view, it’s
only necessary to be aware of the handful of factors that are dominating the
narrative at any given time, particular to the currency pair, time horizon, and
strategy that one has chosen.

C H A P T E R
4
Forex
Analysis
An Introduction and Comparison
of Fundamental and Technical
Analysis
By this point, you should have a thorough understanding of the different
instruments and currencies that are available to you as a forex investor. You
should also be familiar with the dynamic forces that cause currencies to rise
and fall against one another over time. The logical next step, then, is to apply
this knowledge toward the development of both a personalized approach to
analyzing currencies and, ultimately, a trading strategy.
Analytical Schools of Thought
The distinction between so-called fundamental analysis and technical
analysis—which I alluded to in the introduction to this book—represents the
most important dividing line in forex strategy. Fundamental analysts concern
themselves with content while technical analysts focus primarily on charts.
Fundamental factors range from the economic to the financial to the political,
most of which were outlined in Chapter 3. Technicals refer to the patterns
inherent in price movements, some of which can be discerned visually and
others that are revealed only with the aid of computers.

88 Chapter 4 | Forex Analysis
This distinction can also be seen in terms of the external and the internal.
Fundamental analysts are partial to the former; they posit that fluctuations in
exchange rates are the result of phenomena that exist outside of the currency
markets. Their goal is to ascertain both the relationships that exist between
exchange rates and the complex macroeconomic forces that drive them.
Technical analysts, in contrast, operate entirely within the foreign exchange
market and view present exchange rates purely in terms of past rates, and
future rates in terms of present rates. They see the currency market as a self-
contained system and presume that all fluctuations are primarily the result of
patterned buying and selling. The broader factors that drive participants to
buy and sell are viewed as irrelevant or even unknowable.
For example, a fundamental analyst might observe that the euro is rising
against the US dollar and attribute this to changes in comparative inflation
and interest rates. A technical analyst, meanwhile, is content to merely
identify the uptrend in the EUR/USD. In constructing a strategy, the
fundamental analyst must apply his hypothesis to the future and develop a
forecast as to how changes in the fundamental variables that he has identified
will drive proportional changes in the EUR/USD. The technical analyst uses
both visual and quantitative analysis to determine if the trend is substantial,
and whether it is likely to continue.
Another crucial difference between the two types of analysis is the
corresponding time horizon that their practitioners typically adopt. Technical
analysts focus their microscopes on extremely short time intervals, from days
to hours to mere minutes. While technical analysts will concede the existence
of long-term price patterns, the majority operates solely within the realm of
the short term and effectively fit the profile of day traders. Fundamental
analysts prefer to see changes in prices unfolding over weeks, months, and
years. Macroeconomic and monetary variables tend to fluctuate in
accordance with long-term business cycles of 5–10 years, and exchange rates
are perceived to fluctuate accordingly.
In Chapters 5, 6, and 7, I will offer more concrete examples and strategies,
but for now, I simply want to clarify this distinction.
Trading vs. Investing
Fundamental analysis and technical analysis are not mutually exclusive, but
in fact are two sides of the same coin. A trend in prices can be seen in terms

Forex for Beginners 89
of past prices, or it can be seen in terms of external variables. The ultimate
goal of both types of analysis is to identify such trends, forecast their
direction, and profit from them.
In practice, forex traders tend to practice either technical or fundamental
analysis exclusively. This isn’t to say that technical analysts won’t have any
idea of what’s happening macroeconomically, or that fundamental analysts
can’t recognize that a long-term fundamental trend has been interrupted by a
short-term counter-trend. Rather, the point is that speculators in the forex
markets tend to fall very clearly on one side of the line that divides
fundamental analysis from technical analysis.
As I intimated in the introduction, most forex participants would call
themselves traders. They operate over very short time horizons. Positions
remain open for a few minutes or a few hours and span multiple days only on
rare occasions. They trade at very specific price points and have equally
specific profit goals and limits to the amount of losses that they will accept.
Positions are monitored constantly. Leverage of 10 times or greater is a de
facto requirement. They stay out of the market when there is a major news
release and are indifferent to the direction of a trend, as long as they are sure
that it exists. Above all, they are technical analysts. They spend hours
scrutinizing charts. The best traders memorize dozens of price formations
with obscure Japanese names. Trends are confirmed using a handful of
quantitative indicators, without any input from economic variables.
A small portion of forex participants fall under the heading of investors, with
a time horizon measured in weeks or months or longer. Only under extreme
circumstances would a position be opened and closed on the same day. Forex
investors have higher profit hurdles, measured in hundreds of PIPs. As a
result, they are also typically prepared to accept paper losses in the short
term. Positions are checked a couple times a day at most for the purpose of
fine-tuning strategy. Leverage is ultimately unnecessary, though it can be
employed on a modest scale if it’s consistent with one’s particular strategy.
Most importantly, investors are usually fundamental analysts. Forex
investors won’t blindly trade a trend unless they think that they have an idea
as to what’s causing it. Quantitative measurements of trend strength are less
important than identifying the financial economic variables that underlie said
trend.

90 Chapter 4 | Forex Analysis
You can see then that investors and traders are very different. The analytical
prisms through which they view the forex markets drive very different
approaches to trading.
Where Do You Fit In?
It seems silly to ask you to decide, once and for all, whether you are a trader
or an investor, especially because there is some synergy between the two. At
the same time, I think it’s important to determine which type of analysis you
find more attractive and, consequently, which approach to forex is most
appropriate for you.
For now, why not at least acknowledge your knee-jerk reaction? Did you
enjoy the discussion of the macroeconomic variables in Chapter 3? Are you
eager to untangle the fuzzy connections that exist between financial markets
and fundamental variables? Are you a big-picture thinker that likes to
theorize about how everything fits together? Simply, do you enjoy the study
of economics, reading economic reports, etc.? If so, then you are probably a
fundamental analyst.
On the other hand, perhaps you found the first half of Chapter 3 arcane and
boring. Did your eyes gloss over during the discussion of interest rate parity
and capital flows? Are you skeptical that the fundamental connections
between economic fundamentals and exchange rates can be discerned with
any accuracy, if they exist at all? Are you the kind of person that enjoys
looking for patterns in information sets? Do you have a quantitative mind? If
so, then you are probably a technical analyst.
One’s chosen approach to analysis must also be consistent with personality
and trading strategy. For example, are you attracted to the fast pace of the
forex markets, or are you more interested in watching trends slowly unfold?
Are you impulsive? Patient? Which currencies are you interested in trading?
What are your profit goals? Are you seeking a supplemental income or a
padded retirement account? What is your tolerance for risk? How much time
do you plan to devote to trading forex? Do you intend for it to be a hobby or
a full-time pursuit? How much equity capital are you prepared to commit?
You can work backwards from your answers to these questions to determine
which type of analysis is more suitable for you. If you have a few hours a
week, $5,000, and you are looking to diversify an existing financial portfolio,
you’re almost certainly an investor. If you intend to pour all of your savings

Forex for Beginners 91
into forex (which, incidentally, is not really advisable) and plan to spend
every night after work parked at your computer; if you would get bored by a
slow market and would call yourself impatient; if you are comfortable with
competition and attracted to leverage, then you are a trader.
Superior Efficacy of Fundamental Analysis
I am often asked the question, “Which type of analysis is better: technical
analysis or fundamental analysis?” As I explained in the introduction, I am
personally inclined toward fundamental analysis, due primarily to what I
believe is its superior efficacy. The fact of the matter is that there are
demonstrable and observable connections between exchange rates and
underlying economic data. Sometimes, these relationships are only obvious
in hindsight. Other times, they are plagued by contradictions and manifest
themselves in counterintuitive ways. They disappear frequently, and reappear
just as frequently.
However, exchange rates do not behave arbitrarily, appearances aside.
Significant movements are closely correlated with actual, perceived, or
expected changes in underlying fundamentals. Those who are able to
correctly discern these connections will be rewarded for their efforts, both
financially and intellectually.
Unlike technical analysis, fundamental analysis doesn’t become less
profitable when competition increases. If market dynamics are such that
rising interest rates are causing a currency to rise proportionately, this
relationship will not be undone if too many people are aware of it. On the
contrary, it will become even stronger. If too many traders detect the
emergence of a technical trend, on the other hand, it may be arbitraged away
before it can fully emerge.
That’s not to say that technical analysis can’t be profitable. On the contrary,
for a small minority of traders it can be tremendously profitable. From the
standpoint of its practitioners, its appeal lies in its economy (no pun
intended). While fundamental analysis posits airy connections between
economic variables and exchange rates, technical analysts purport to operate
in a more scientific realm. Trades are not based on whims, but on
quantifiable and observable patterns in prices. Trends are confirmed based on
concrete principles, and trades are executed only when quantitative indicators
support them.

92 Chapter 4 | Forex Analysis
In addition, the forecasting power of technical analysis is often self-fulfilling.
For example, if every trader expected the EUR/USD to plunge when it hit the
psychotically important level of $1.50, then a flurry of anticipatory sell
orders would all but ensure such a result. In addition, if a steep rally in a
currency pair brought the rate well above what fundamentals justified, it
would probably be reflected in various technical indicators. Technical
analysts would respond by selling the pair, and a correction would become
self-fulfilling.
Perhaps the strongest argument in favor of technical analysis is that it is
flexible and broadly applicable to most asset and securities markets. By now,
you must have realized that if you fancy yourself as a fundamental analyst,
you will need to learn a unique framework for analyzing currencies. Throw
out everything you learned about the stock market and the bond market, and
start from scratch. On the other hand, if you were a technical analyst in your
previous life as a commodities trader, making the transition to trading
currencies should be fairly uneventful. That’s not to say that you won’t need
to spend some time acquainting yourself with the peculiarities of forex. At
the very least, though, you don’t need to learn an entirely new analytical
approach.
As will become clear in Chapter 6, however, technical analysis can be quite
arbitrary. It is impossible to devise cut-and-dried trading rules since market
conditions are always changing, and since patterns that repeat themselves are
likely to be arbitraged away. An exchange rate is unlikely to behave in
exactly the same way over time, despite what technical indicators may imply.
In fact, most technical analysts will admit that their goal is to merely be right
60% of the time. After taking transaction costs (spreads) into account, this
implies that it can only be slightly more accurate than the flip of a coin.
In addition, technical analysis is intellectually unsatisfying. Why is the euro
rising against the dollar? Because fear has reached an apex and greed is
rising, of course! As an explanation, this is only slightly more profound than
the notion that supply exceeds demand, or vice versa. While this might in
fact be relevant within the scope of technical analysis, it lacks punch.
Personally, I would feel much more comfortable betting on a rising euro if I
understood that it was being driven by changes in specific economic
variables, rather than by the abstract idea that it was previously “oversold.” It
reminds me of Plato’s Allegory of the Cave: technical analysts are chained to
the wall and see only the shadows—the prices—while fundamental analysts

Forex for Beginners 93
live in reality and try to see what’s actually causing those shadows. But I
digress.
Most importantly, the recent track record of technical analysis does not
inspire much confidence. According to publicly available data, only 25% of
retail forex accountholders earn a profit in any given quarter. (This figure
ranges from 20%–40%, by quarter and by broker. If the same survey were
conducted on an annual basis, the overall figure would no doubt be even
lower!) Given that the overwhelming majority of accountholders are day
traders, this does little to boost the case for technical analysis.
This fact was reinforced by a 2011 Federal Reserve Bank research paper
titled “Technical Analysis in the Foreign Exchange Market.”1 The paper
compared the results of nearly 100 academic studies from the modern
financial era and came to the following conclusion: “Technical Trading Rule
profitability has been declining since the late 1980s. . . . Major currencies no
longer trend reliably but markets in newly trading currencies appear to
display some profit opportunities from technical rules. This finding suggests
that traders in major currency markets have arbitraged away technical
patterns but those patterns still exist in emerging markets.” As a result of the
“financial arms race,” profits inure to those with the fastest computers and
smartest algorithms: “The excess returns to relatively simple rules based on
filters or moving averages had disappeared by the early 1990s, but returns to
more complex or sophisticated rules have persisted.”
Technical analysts should be alarmed by these conclusions. Where
competition is high (for major currencies), technical trading rules tend to be
unprofitable. The same can apparently be said for trading rules that are too
simplistic. The implications are straightforward enough: to earn consistent
profits in technical analysis, you should stick to obscure corners of the
market (where spreads are higher) and/or develop more complex trading
rules.
1 Christopher J. Neely and Paul A. Weller, “Technical Analysis in the Foreign Exchange
Market” (Working Paper 2011-001B, Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis, January 2011),
http://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=1734836.

94 Chapter 4 | Forex Analysis
Blending Technical and Fundamental
Analysis
Ultimately, I think the smartest strategies should incorporate aspects from
both schools of thought. Technical and fundamental analysis alike can claim
concrete strengths and weaknesses. Whether they are effective at any given
time depends on prevailing market conditions, one’s time horizon for
investing, etc. Let’s face it: exchange rates are influenced by both technical
and fundamental factors, and investors that focus exclusively on one type of
analysis do so at their peril.
In Chapter 7, I will introduce a strategic approach to currency investing that
is based on both types of analysis. For the sake of simplicity, I will first
introduce each one separately, beginning with fundamental analysis.

C H A P T E R
5
Fundamental
Analysis
Analyzing Exchange Rates Based
on Fundamental Factors
Fundamental analysis deals with the external factors that move currencies.
These factors might be quantifiable, like those that fall under the umbrella of
economics or finance. There are also numerous qualitative factors, such as
investor sentiment, political developments, and crises of various kinds. As I
explained in Chapter 3, all of these factors can influence exchange rates, and
determining just how this takes place is the job of the fundamental analyst.
At the heart of fundamental analysis is the notion of equilibrium. At any
given time, a currency pair should trade at a particular rate that balances
trade and investment flows. Of course, fluctuations in market risk appetite
and unexpected developments may imply a rate that is well above or below
what financial-economic conditions justify. If you accept the efficient market
hypothesis in its weak form—the idea that all public information has already
been priced into the exchange rate—then this isn’t a major concern.
Fundamental analysis is ultimately more art than science. As you’ll see from
the pages that follow, competing narratives abound in the forex markets, and
this makes fundamental analysis difficult even in the most stable market
conditions. Still, those that are able to read the tea leaves correctly (and are
able to develop good forecasts) will find fundamental analysis of exchange
rates to be a rewarding pursuit.

96 Chapter 5 | Fundamental Analysis
Interest Rate Analysis
There are two overarching forces which describe how changes in central
bank interest rates impact exchange rates: interest rate parity and the carry
trade. Emerging (growth) currencies tend to trade in direct proportion to
relative interest rate levels since higher rates attract speculative investors.
Recall that investors in the carry trade seek to profit from positive interest
rate differentials; hence, the higher the interest rate, the more attractive the
corresponding currency. Currencies backed by stable (slow growth)
economies generally fluctuate against one another so as to preserve interest
rate parity, especially over the long term.
In other words, interest rate adjustments lead to inverse changes in the
exchange rates between major currencies. For example, a hike in the US
federal funds rate should cause the US dollar to fall against the British
pound, unless the Bank of England takes similar action. Recall from Figure
3-5 in Chapter 3 that, from 2004 to the present, changes in the US/UK
interest rate differential presaged corresponding changes in the GBP/USD
rate. In order for interest rate parity to be maintained, a decline in US interest
rates (relative to UK rates) should spur risk-averse investors away from the
pound and toward the US dollar. The same logic can be applied to the Swiss
franc, Japanese yen, euro, and Canadian dollar.
This relationship is not set in stone. The actual impact will depend on
investor sentiment and the prevailing market narrative. When risk appetite is
extremely high, for example, investors might treat major currencies like
emerging currencies. In the early 2000s, when the carry trade came into
vogue, the US dollar rose rapidly against the yen in conjunction with a series
of federal rate hikes. Similarly, when the Federal Reserve Bank, or
commonly, the Fed, began cutting rates in 2007, investors moved to unwind
their carry trade positions and the US dollar plunged against the yen. As a
result, the USD/JPY underwent a massive correction (Figure 5-1) and interest
rate parity was restored.

Forex for Beginners 97
Figure 5-1. USD/JPY response to changing interest rate differential
One way to conceptualize this is that, due to high appetite for risk, spot
market traders were willing to violate covered interest rate parity in order to
secure immediate short-term profits. When risk appetite tanked (in the lead
up to the 2008 credit crisis) and the US/Japan interest rate differential
simultaneously narrowed, the short-term benefit of holding the US dollar
against the Japanese yen was eliminated. Another way to understand this is
that the spot market (which was betting on the dollar) fell out of equilibrium
with the forward market (which implied a weaker dollar, in accordance with
covered interest rate parity) and was only restored when speculators in the
spot market retreated.
You can see from Figure 5-1 that both the long-term uptrend (from 2004 to
2007) in the USD/JPY and the long-term downtrend that followed (from
2007 to present) were preceded by changes in the interest rate differential.
(To be fair, the downtrend was much due to the inception of the global
financial crisis, and falling US interest rates were probably more of an effect
than a cause. I will explore this idea later in greater detail.) A fundamental
analyst, then, might have seen an opportunity to buy the USD/JPY in 2005
and a basis for selling in 2007.
In fact, the carry trade has become one of the most reliable trades in forex.
When investors buy a high-yielding currency against a low-yielding one,

98 Chapter 5 | Fundamental Analysis
they can capture an interest rate spread. Their expectation is that the
underlying exchange rate will remain stable so that adverse changes don’t
erode interest earnings. When market risk appetite is strong, a flood of
speculative capital into carry trade strategies actually forces the underlying
exchange rate to rise, and profits from currency appreciation become an
added bonus for those seeking low-risk interest. When the tide turns,
however, the whipsaw of money flowing out of carry trades can be just as
ferocious. This is typically triggered by a change in risk appetite rather than a
change in interest rate differentials.
Emerging market currencies represent the primary targets for carry traders
since their corresponding short-term interest rates are perennially high. Their
industrialized counterparts, on the flipside, are known for low rates and are
better utilized on the short end of the carry trade as funding currencies. Of
course, emerging market currencies are also plagued by higher volatility,
monetary instability, lower liquidity, and logistical issues related to trading
them. The benchmark interest rates of Angola and Kenya, for example, are
perennially among the highest in the world, but, for many reasons, their
currencies are not well suited for carry trading, let alone normal currency
speculation.
Before we get ahead of ourselves, consider that there are in fact many
different interest rates, depending on which entity is performing the
calculation. For example, most central banks control a base interest rate that
they determine outright or merely target (as in the case of the Federal
Reserve Bank). The Fed has its federal funds rate and discount rate. The
European Central Bank has its refinancing rate. The Bank of England uses a
repo rate while the Bank of Japan prefers an overnight call rate. While the
nuts and bolts of each country’s rate mechanism are slightly different, the
objective is always the same: to achieve economic stability. For example,
when an economy is expanding too quickly and price inflation picks up, the
central bank will raise its benchmark interest rate in order to make saving
more attractive than borrowing and spending. During a recession, the central
bank will lower interest rates in order to make saving unattractive (at the
expense of immediate consumption) and borrowing inexpensive.
The central bank base rate is the rate at which banks lend to each other using
deposits held with the central bank. It is typically the lowest rate throughout
the entire financial system. Moreover, it is typically utilized in exchange rate
models because it is the easiest to compare across different countries and
over time. (See Figure 5-2.)

Forex for Beginners 99
Figure 5-2. Central bank base interest rates for selected economies, change over time
As one moves down the pyramid of size and liquidity, from large bank to
small business to consumer, interest rates can be expected to rise
incrementally in order to compensate for the perception of greater credit risk.
You can also utilize London Interbank Offer Rates (LIBOR) rates, which are
used for interbank loans and are determined by market forces. Comparing
sovereign bond yields—like the US 10-year Treasury Bond Rate versus the
UK 10-year Guilt Rate—is yet another option, though these rates reflect
differences in government creditworthiness as much as differences in price
inflation and economic growth and are hence less applicable.
Except in rare circumstances (such as during crises), interest rate adjustments
are carried out by central banks only at regularly scheduled meetings. At the
conclusion of these meetings, all changes in monetary policy (including rate
changes) are announced to the public through written press releases and/or
via live press conferences. Fundamental analysts pay especially close
attention to these meetings, which are the focus of tremendous short-term
speculation in the credit and forex markets. (Technical analysts are also
keenly aware of the meetings’ significance and may avoid all trading during
the volatile periods immediately before and after the announcement.) Most
central banks will also release the minutes from their meetings, detailing
what took place, how board members (also known as governors) voted on
proposed changes in monetary policy, and so forth.

100 Chapter 5 | Fundamental Analysis
Central banks usually telegraph their intentions in advance to avoid shocking
the markets. Press releases may thus contain insight into the near-future
direction of monetary policy and are the subject of intense analytical
scrutiny. In fact, every investment bank employs a research team whose sole
responsibility is to develop interest rate forecasts, which are then channeled
into bets in the credit markets. As a result, interest rate futures prices can be
used as a basis for assessing the “probability” of interest rate hikes and are an
important tool for fundamental analysts. (In fact, research has shown that
futures markets slightly underestimate changes in the federal funds rate, but
they are nonetheless the best insights into where investors believe rates are
headed.)1
Per Figure 5-3, the Fed is not expected to raise the federal funds rate from the
current level of 0.0%–0.25% at its upcoming December meeting. The
markets wavered slightly from this assumption in July, but have since settled
on a 0.0% probability.
Figure 5-3. Implied probability of federal funds rate change at December 2011 meeting
(Source: The Cleveland Fed)
As for how central bank interest rate adjustments impact the forex markets in
real-time, that depends on investors’ expectations and specific market
conditions. If the actual change is consistent with analysts’ forecasts, relevant
1 Ed Nosal, “How Well Does the Federal Funds Futures Rate Predict the Future Federal
Funds Rate?” Economic Commentary, October 2001, http://199.169.201.130/research
/commentary/2001/1001.pdf.

Forex for Beginners 101
exchange rates probably won’t jump by much. If the rate change fails to
accord with expectations or comes as a complete surprise, you would expect
instant 50–100 PIP moves across the board.
Furthermore, in an atmosphere that is considered hospitable to the carry
trade, a rate hike will make the corresponding currency more attractive to
speculators and should cause immediate or near-term appreciation. The
opposite should be true for an interest rate cut. When risk appetite is weak,
rate changes will be ignored by markets or result in inverse changes to the
respective currency in line with purchasing power parity. Of course, there are
exceptions to this rule. When the European Central Bank announced a
surprise cut in its benchmark rate in November 2011, investors responded by
selling the euro. That’s not because the euro suddenly became a more
attractive funding currency for the carry trade, but because the cut triggered
concerns that the Eurozone sovereign debt crisis had become more serious.
Figure 5-4. Spot market reaction to November 2011 surprise European Central Bank rate cut

102 Chapter 5 | Fundamental Analysis
Inflation Analysis
From the standpoint of fundamental analysis, the importance of inflation is
twofold: it directly erodes the value of currency and is one of the primary
drivers of monetary policy.
Remember from Chapter 3 that purchasing power parity is one of the central
tenets of exchange rate theory. And for good reason! Inflation makes
currency less valuable in both absolute and relative terms. As a medium of
exchange and store of value, a currency is only useful/valuable insofar as it
can be used to purchase goods and services, both now and in the future. If
prices are rising by 5% per year, then one unit of currency will necessarily be
worth 5% less one year from now!
Given that currencies are valued in terms of one another, inflation rates are
mainly applicable to the forex markets on a comparative basis. (For instance,
consider the possibility that inflation rates were synchronized at 5%
throughout the entire world. In that case, the relative value of their currencies
would not change, even though domestic consumers would suffer a 5%
decline in domestic purchasing power.) This is one of the main reasons for
the steady appreciation of the Japanese yen against the US dollar over the last
several decades, which has taken place despite a handful of contradicting
factors. Likewise, several emerging market currencies have stagnated
because of inflation, their strong economies notwithstanding. As I explained,
that’s because inflation has the same effect as currency depreciation. If
macroeconomic fundamentals justify a 10% appreciation in the Brazilian
real, but the Brazilian rate of inflation exceeds 10%, then the real should
remain roughly in place in order for economic equilibrium to be maintained.
While purchasing power parity is a reasonable guide for making multi-year
exchange rate forecasts, its explanatory power is fairly limited over the short
term, where the sway of inflation is mainly psychological. As long as the
inflation rate remains at an acceptable level (which varies from 0%–10%,
depending on the country and the strength of its economy), it tends to elicit
little response from consumers and investors. That’s because moderate
inflation has been shown to be crucial to proper economic function. If
inflation were too low (or even negative), it would offset the balance between
saving and investing, induce consumers to hoard cash, and interfere with the
ability of central banks to conduct monetary policy, among other things. On
the other hand, high inflation can quickly spiral into hyperinflation, causing
economic disruption, loss of savings, and even social unrest. None of the

Forex for Beginners 103
major currencies has experienced hyperinflation in the modern era of forex.
Similarly, more than two decades have passed since a bout of hyperinflation
has plagued any of the top-tier emerging currencies. While some paranoid
gold bugs would certainly disagree, hyperinflation is not a likely possibility
in any of the currencies that are discussed in this book.
At the same time, inflation is problematic for investors because it eats into
investment returns. When inflation ticks up without a corresponding change
in interest rates, the real interest rate (also known as the inflation-adjusted
interest rate) is said to decline. Likewise, a 10% return on an equity
investment is not so attractive if the rate of inflation is also hovering
around 10%.
Emerging market investors are especially sensitive to sudden upticks in
inflation. That’s because currency appreciation has historically accounted for
more than half of the returns earned by investors in emerging markets.2
When inflation ticks up rapidly, emerging market investors will respond by
shifting money back into industrialized economies until the responsible
central bank takes steps toward monetary and price stability. By way of
example, consider the case of the Brazilian real, whose speedy recovery in
the wake of the financial crisis slowed to a halt in 2010, due in part to fears
of rising inflation. The Brazilian real resumed its ascent in 2010, when the
Bank of Brazil finally raised its benchmark Selic rate. This appreciation took
place in spite of capital controls that were imposed by the central bank to
deter speculators. (Note Figure 5-5.)
Of course, the principal application of inflation to the currency markets
involves its role as a guide for monetary policy decisions. Most central banks
have an overarching mandate to control inflation. The Federal Reserve Bank
has slightly more latitude as it is charged both with maximizing employment
and maintaining price stability. When inflation rises, central banks respond
by tightening monetary policy in the form of interest rate hikes and other
adjustments. (At the very least, they will acknowledge inflation in their press
releases and offer some indication as to whether it is viewed as a problem.)
This should cause prices to stabilize and economic growth to cool. When
inflation begins to fall, the central bank will respond by taking necessary
action, like cutting rates. Indicators of inflation thus receive tremendous
3 Steve Johnson, “Push to Tap into EM Currency Returns,” Financial Times, February
27, 2011, www.ft.com/intl/cms/s/0/1170ed2e-4112-11e0-bf62-00144feabdc0.html#axzz1
tlpZ6PJ8.

104 Chapter 5 | Fundamental Analysis
attention from the financial markets as they tend to presage changes in
interest rates.
Figure 5-5. Impact of rising inflation and falling real interest rates on the Brazilian real
This relationship does break down from time to time. In the wake of the
financial crisis, emerging market currencies had fallen to multi-year lows.
Emerging market central banks were happy about this development because
lower exchange rates made their exports relatively cheaper. The downside of
this currency depreciation was import inflation. If the price of oil is $90 per
barrel, for example, South Africa will pay 720 rand per barrel at an exchange
rate of 8 USD/ZAR, but 810 if the Rand depreciates to 9 USD/ZAR. There
will also be a trickle-down impact across the entire economy.
As inflation picked up, then, emerging market central banks pondered raising
interest rates. They feared, however, that rate hikes would invite speculative
capital inflows from risk-driven investors eager to shake off the pall of the
credit crisis. The resulting currency appreciation would affect exports and
endanger their fragile economic recoveries. Sure enough, falling real interest
rates caused emerging market currencies to stagnate in early 2010. Inflation
rose further as emerging market central banks played monetary chicken with
one another, opting to raise reserve requirement ratios rather than adjust
interest rates. The Bank of Brazil finally broke down and hiked its

Forex for Beginners 105
benchmark Selic rate in late 2010, and other central banks followed suit in
2011. Their currencies resumed their appreciation shortly thereafter.
There are a handful of ways in which inflation is measured. Most
governments have a branch that computes economic statistics. (In the United
States, this task is delegated to the Departments of Labor and Commerce.)
The Consumer Price Index (CPI) is perhaps the most comprehensive
measure of inflation in an economy. Composed of a basket of tens of
thousands of goods and services, it is designed to mimic the spending
patterns of a broad spectrum of consumers. Of course, some items/sectors are
weighted more heavily than others, such that a rise in the price of car tires
will probably impact overall CPI less than a rise in home prices. CPI data is
released once a month and is reported on both an overall basis and regional
bases. It is often modified to exclude certain items, such as food and energy,
which are considered too volatile. The end product is known as core inflation
and represents one of the most important guides of monetary policy.
(Conspiracy theorists will assert that this exclusion is intended to understate
inflation, but to be fair, it also corrects for sudden declines in food and
energy prices, as can be seen in Figure 5-6 below.)
There are a handful of secondary inflation indicators, such as the GDP
deflator and the producer price index (PPI). The former is computed by the
US Department of Commerce and is used as a basis for converting nominal
GDP into real GDP. The latter measures inflation as experienced by
manufacturers. As is evident from Figure 5-6, producer price indexes are
closely connected with exchange rate fluctuations, since most manufactured
goods are assembled with overseas components. Secondary inflation indexes
include the Commodity Research Board (CRB) Futures Index, which consists
of prices for 21 commodities, as well as the Employment Cost Index and
Import Price Index (IPI). (In fact, the Federal Reserve Bank’s statistical
database contains more than 1,000 different measurements of inflation,
segmented by economic sector, geographic region, end user, and so on.)
Most indexes are seasonally adjusted, annualized, and converted into
percentage form for ease of comparison.

106 Chapter 5 | Fundamental Analysis
Figure 5-6. Various indicators of US inflation from 2001 to the present
Some analysts pay close attention to the Housing Price Index (HPI) under the
belief that home prices play a critical role in guiding monetary policy. While
the Fed certainly pays lip service to asset prices (including housing prices),
however, it has insisted that these are outside of its mandate. In the past, the
Fed has only been influenced by asset bubbles insofar as they threaten to
affect the economy as a whole and price levels, broadly.
Component indicators are monitored because they inform predictions for
future inflation. As this book goes to press, the federal funds rate stands at
0%, and history suggests that the Fed won’t hike rates until core inflation
rises. In this case, rising inflation will probably be preceded by an increase in
producer prices and/or a recovery in housing prices.
Some economists—Milton Friedman, notably—have argued that price
inflation is a function of growth in the money supply. The theory goes that, if
new money enters circulation, the value of existing currency declines. When
the Fed increased the money supply in 2009 as part of its quantitative easing
program, for example, critics argued that it would trigger hyperinflation and
lead to a crash in the US dollar. Chairman of the Federal Reserve Bank Ben
Bernanke steadfastly responded that if and when inflation creeps upward, the
Fed would simply withdraw the newly printed money from circulation. (Thus
far, Bernanke’s position has been upheld.)3 In fact, it has always been the

Forex for Beginners 107
Fed’s policy to ignore money supply. In 2006, it caused quite a stir when the
Fed ceased collecting data on M3 (M2 plus large and long-term deposits)
which is perhaps the broadest measure of US money supply. Fundamental
analysts that disagree with the Fed’s interpretation can still access M1
(physical money such as coins and currency plus demand deposits) and M2
(M1 plus time-related deposits and savings deposits). Other central banks
publish comparable data. Given the link between a continuously growing
money supply and a declining US dollar (Figure 5-7), these data series might
be worth paying attention to!
Figure 5-7. Correlation between rising M2 and declining (trade-weighted) US dollar
For guidance on where the markets think US inflation is headed, analysts
should look at US Treasury Inflation Protected Securities (TIPS). TIPS are
similar to US Treasury bonds, except that principal and interest payments are
tied to the CPI. By calculating the breakeven point between TIPS and normal
Treasury securities, it’s possible to determine inflation expectations for the
next 5, 10, 20, and 30 years. For example, if the current 10-year US Treasury
yield is 4.5%, and the yield on an equivalent TIPS bond is 7.5%, then the
“breakeven” inflation rate is 3% per year. (This calculation ignores the
liquidity/uncertainty premium built into TIPS, which is generally
insubstantial.) If inflation expectations rise, this premium will also rise, even
controlling for changing perceptions of US creditworthiness. Ignoring the
2008 volatility—which was an anomaly caused by the credit crisis—the
expected inflation rate for the next 5 years has hovered around 2.5%–3%.
3 Ben S. Bernanke, “What the Fed Did and Why: Supporting the Recovery and Sustaining
Price Stability,” Washington Post, November 4, 2010, www.washingtonpost
.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2010/11/03/AR2010110307372.html.

108 Chapter 5 | Fundamental Analysis
(See Figure 5-8.) If you perform this calculation on the equivalent Japanese
securities, in contrast, you will see that expectations there are for negative
price inflation (also known as deflation).
Figure 5-8. Market expectations for 5-Year CPI inflation based on “breakeven” rates (Source:
Bloomberg L.P.)
Economic Indicators
After inflation, gross domestic product (GDP) is the most important
economic indicator, at least as far as the forex markets are concerned. The
GDP growth rate—or rather, the real GDP growth rate, which controls for
inflation—is a comprehensive barometer of the health of an economy. If the
number is positive, it means that economic output is expanding, while a
negative number implies a contraction. Real GDP is especially useful for
comparative purposes. In a nutshell, the currencies of high-growth emerging
economies should outperform major currencies, whose economies tend to
exhibit slower growth.
Unfortunately, that’s probably the most profound generality that can be
made. For example, there is only a slight connection between real GDP
growth differentials and long-term exchange rate movements between
Canada and the United States, as seen in Figure 5-9. Generally speaking, the
US dollar has risen against the Loonie when the US/Canada differential was
positive, and fared less well when the differential turned negative. At the

Forex for Beginners 109
same time, the Loonie has appreciated by more than 40% since 2002, even
though the economies of the US and Canada have grown at roughly the same
rate (the real GDP growth differential has hovered around 0) for the same
period. In short, it might be difficult to establish an actionable trading
strategy based on GDP alone.
Figure 5-9. USD / CAD exchange rate and real GDP growth differential
That’s not to say that the currency markets don’t take GDP seriously. On the
contrary, GDP figures are probably secondary only to inflation indicators in
their ability to create a stir and drive instantaneous reactions. This can be
seen especially in the frantic trading that takes place in the minutes leading
up to and immediately following their official release.
The same can be said about most of the various other economic indicators,
which are absorbed into the currency markets either right away, not at all, or
indirectly through other indicators. As for which indicators are important
(those that have the power to move the market), that depends on the market
narrative at any given time. In the wake of the 2008 housing market collapse,
for example, housing indicators suddenly acquired tremendous influence as
the financial markets looked to the housing sector to lead the economic
recovery. There are indicators that measure supply, by way of housing starts
and construction permits and inventory, as well as those that measure
demand, by way of mortgage applications, residential sales, and vacancy
rates. And of course, there are dozens of indexes that measure nothing but
price, segmented by type of dwelling, price-range, region, and so forth. The

110 Chapter 5 | Fundamental Analysis
most famous index is probably the Case-Shiller Home Price Index, though it
is not necessarily the most comprehensive.
There are some commentators who would insist that there are certain
indicators that are always important, but my experience suggests that this is
not actually the case. That’s probably due to the fact that there are thousands
of indicators covering every facet of every economy. To try to monitor more
than a handful with any level of dedication would be futile at best and
counterproductive at worst. That’s not just because most indicators are
irrelevant, but also because many are contradictory. For trading purposes, it’s
best to stick to a few of the most prominent leading indicators. These
indicators precede changes in the economy and must be distinguished from
lagging indicators, which follow changes in the economy.
Most forex news websites (and most financial news websites, for that matter)
compile a calendar of all economic indicators, along with a description of
each, scheduled release/date time, previous value, and consensus forecast
(like the one in Figure 5-10). Some editors will go one step further and
attempt to gauge the relative importance of each indicator. From monitoring
these lists, forex forums, and media coverage, it’s usually fairly easy to
determine which indicators are worth paying attention to at any given time.
Figure 5-10. Sample Economic Calendar (Source: ForexPros.com)
A good rule of thumb is that if CNBC and Bloomberg News are not featuring
live coverage of the indicator’s release, it probably won’t sway the markets
much. As with inflation, interest rates, and GDP figures, the number that is
reported is not significant in and of itself, but only relative to market
expectations. It’s not uncommon for a speculative buildup in advance of the
release to drive a 50 PIP move in one direction, only to reverse completely
when the indicator fails to conform to expectations. It should also be noted

Forex for Beginners 111
that all initial data releases are preliminary and are always accompanied by
modified final numbers for the previous period.
As for why indicators’ relative significance varies over time, the answer is
that the markets are capricious and that significance is self-fulfilling.
Sometimes the rationale is indirect. Employment indicators, for example,
would seem to have very little direct bearing on currencies. Because they can
influence monetary policy (such as when a high unemployment rate
prevented the Fed from hiking interest rates despite the onset of economic
recovery in 2010) one must still pay attention to them.
Practitioners of technical analysis should also be aware of economic
indicators’ scheduled release times. The spikes in volatility that they tend to
produce can confound technical strategies and trigger massive losses among
those caught unaware.
Balance of Payments Analysis
As I explained in Chapter 3, the impact of payments imbalances on exchange
rates is anything but straightforward. In theory, a perennial trade deficit
(when imports exceed exports) should cause currency depreciation so that
long-term equilibrium can be restored. You can see from Figure 5-11, for
example, that the release of UK trade figures in November 2011 touched off
an immediate 150 PIP decline in the pound and seemed to catalyze an even
bigger correction in the weeks that followed.

112 Chapter 5 | Fundamental Analysis
Figure 5-11. Impact of trade deficit on British pound
That’s because the figures showed a growing trade deficit and a goods deficit
that was at the highest level since 1998. In other words, the markets
concluded that at its current level, the pound was hindering both the recovery
of the export sector (still languishing after the 2008 economic downturn) and
the broader economy. To add fuel to the fire, the trade figures were even
worse than the most pessimistic forecasts.
Naturally, the opposite should be true for any currency that boasts a trade
surplus. South Korea and the rest of the so-called Asian Tigers, for example,
have long experienced currency appreciation as a (undesirable) byproduct of
their perennial trade surpluses.
Most countries release trade data broken down into goods and services,
imports and exports, and on a monthly basis. Current account data,
meanwhile, is typically released on a quarterly basis. In addition, there are an

Forex for Beginners 113
inexhaustible number of data streams for cross-border capital flows
(classified by region, financial security, type of transaction, and so forth)
which make excellent fodder for fundamental analysis!
In practice, it is tremendously difficult to derive the equilibrium exchange
rate from a trade imbalance alone because the exchange rate is necessarily
already at equilibrium. Recall that the difference between exports and
imports should approximate the difference between savings and investment
as well as the net change in ownership of domestic assets. This is basically
another way of saying that trade deficits must be offset by net investment
inflows, and vice versa. From this perspective, the relevant question is not
whether net exporters are willing to subsidize net importers, but whether
investors from net exporting countries are able and willing to deploy this
difference into investment opportunities in the net importing economy at
current exchange rates. In the words of one economic columnist, “When it
comes to the U.S. trade gap, how many refrigerators the U.S. sells overseas is
far less important than how many dollars the rest of the world wants.”4
Figure 5-12, for example, shows that foreign entities purchase trillions of
dollars of US securities (on a gross basis) every quarter, which provides a
strong counterbalance to the trade deficit.
Figure 5-12. Gross quarterly purchases of US financial securities by foreign residents
(Source: Bureau of Economic Analysis)
6 Frank Ahrens, “U.S. Trade Imbalance Widens Slightly: So What?” Washington Post,
May 13, 2009, http://voices.washingtonpost.com/economy-watch/2009/05/us_trade
_imbalance_widens_slig.html.

114 Chapter 5 | Fundamental Analysis
As an aside, current account deficits sometimes lead to bubbles in net
importing countries, while other times it leads to currency depreciation. In
the case of the US dollar, the perennial US current account deficit has caused
both outcomes.
Another problem with analyzing the impact of trade data on exchange rates is
that, by definition, they describe the past. As trade and investment flows
reflect fundamental (non-speculative) shifts in demand for particular
currencies, these shifts must necessarily have already happened prior to the
release of the data. In other words, the fact that the United Kingdom
experienced a large trade deficit last month doesn’t necessarily offer any
clues into what will happen in the future.
Fortunately, this is almost irrelevant as far as you and I are concerned. Since
forex trading is dominated by speculators, the fact that the markets adjust to
trade and investment flows only after they have taken place (when they are
reported) is not really a problem. In this way, these movements of money can
be said to affect exchange rates twice: first, when they actually take place
and, secondly, when the markets become aware of them. The first adjustment
takes place gradually and often imperceptibly, while the second happens in
large thuds.
Moreover, trade and investment flows typically follow easily identifiable
trends. While deficits may spike from time to time, they typically move up,
down, or sideways, and they do so for sustained periods of time. A structural
shift from surplus to deficit (or vice versa) might signify that a currency is
undervalued (overvalued), especially if it isn’t offset by a comparable shift in
investment flows. In 2011, the Japanese yen rose to a record high against the
US dollar, and its trade surplus steadily narrowed. The budding fundamental
analysts out there might want to look for further clues that the yen might
soon follow the dollar downward. (See
Figure 5-13.)

Forex for Beginners 115
Figure 5-13. (Potential) impact of changing trade patterns on USD/JPY (Source: Japan
Ministry of Finance, Bank of Japan)
Sentiment Analysis
The theme of risk aversion was thrust to the forefront of investor
consciousness in 2008 with the collapse of Bear Stearns and Lehman
Brothers. As the banking crisis morphed first into a credit crisis and then into
a full-blown financial crisis, the markets became transfixed by credit risk and
moved to shed any assets for which there was even a slight possibility of
default. This phenomenon manifested itself with especial intensity in the
forex markets, where investors fled all emerging and peripheral currencies
and migrated en masse into the US dollar. (Note Figure 5-14.) That’s because
the United States is perceived as one of the safest places in the world to
invest, due to the size of the US economy and depth of US capital markets.
With this, the notion of the safe haven currency—one that is seen as
preferable during times of crisis—was born.

116 Chapter 5 | Fundamental Analysis
Figure 5-14. USD, CHF, JPY: 2008 financial crisis and aftermath
Even after the markets recovered in 2009 and 2010, risk aversion was never
far away. The sudden ignition of the European sovereign debt crisis, the
earthquake in Japan, the downgrading of the US sovereign credit rating, and
more all fueled investors’ fears. With each negative development, the
markets responded in kind. The Japanese yen and the Swiss franc, which had
also developed reputations as safe haven currencies, both rose to record
highs. Simply, their capital markets are not deep enough to absorb sudden
influxes of money without putting strong downward pressure on their
exchange rates. The US dollar held up well, too. Throughout this period,
there were plenty of developments that generated optimism. Each caused the
flight of capital into safe havens to reverse. This manifestation of bipolar
disorder was dubbed by one commentator as “risk-on, risk-off.”5
In fact, risk aversion has long been a driver of currency markets, though
previously it was risk appetite that hogged the spotlight. During most of the
2000s, record-high risk tolerance (some would call it complacency) led
droves of investors into growth currencies. They came in search of higher
yields, and the potential for currency appreciation was merely an added
9 Matthew Brown, “‘Risk On-Risk Off’ to Remain Key to Currency Markets for Months,
HSBC Says,” Bloomberg News, August 17, 2010, www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-
17/-risk-on-risk-off-to-remain-key-to-currency-markets-for-months-hsbc-says.html.

Forex for Beginners 117
bonus. In 2011, the carry trade began to make a comeback, as investors were
lulled back into a sense of security by rising interest rate differentials and
economic recovery.
From the standpoint of fundamental analysis, there are a few good
quantitative indicators that are useful for forecasting risk. The first is simply
forex volatility, which measures the extent of fluctuations in exchange rates
and is used interchangeably with risk. Most forex portals offer volatility data
on specific forex pairs, in absolute and percentage terms. In Figure 5-15, you
can see how volatility in the EUR/USD has ebbed and flowed over time.
Figure 5-15. Average daily fluctuation in EUR/USD, number of PIPs (Source:
Forexticket.co.uk)
The JP Morgan G7 Currency Volatility Index (shown in Figure 5-16)
meanwhile offers the most comprehensive snapshot of overall forex
volatility. A spike in volatility will typically precede a spike in risk aversion.
That’s because an increase in volatility implies more variable (and therefore
less dependable) returns.

118 Chapter 5 | Fundamental Analysis
Figure 5-16. JP Morgan G7 Currency Volatility Index, 2007–2011 (Source: Bloomberg L.P.)
Implied volatility in options contracts represents market expectations of
volatility going forward. One can look at specific contracts in order to
determine how volatility expectations differ across different currency pairs,
time periods, and so on. With the Black-Scholes options pricing model, it’s
possible to plug in all of the known variables and deduce the volatility that is
implied by the price of the option. Most integrated quote/trading platforms
(or a subscription to OptionVue) can perform this calculation automatically
based on the other known parameters and display the implied volatility for
any security/currency that has a corresponding option. Additionally, the New
York Federal Reserve Bank regularly publishes data on implied volatility for
major currencies, as shown in Figure 5-17. For example, the implied
volatility of the JPY/USD in February 2012 was 10.1% (annualized) on a
weekly basis and 13.5% on an annualized basis. When statistical theory is
applied to these numbers, they imply a 68% chance that one year from now,
the USD/JPY will be within 13.5% of the current exchange rate, and there is
a 95% chance that it will fall within 27% (2 times implied volatility).

Forex for Beginners 119
Figure 5-17. Implied volatility (%) for major currencies in February 2012 (Source: The New
York Fed)
As for measuring the markets’ appetite for risk, the best proxy is probably
the S&P 500 Index. When risk appetite is high, equities tend to outperform
bonds, and growth currencies tend to outperform the majors. Similarly, the
shift of capital from bonds into stocks (which is measured and released
periodically by the mutual fund industry) also reflects an increased risk
appetite. In fact, 2010–2011 witnessed a strong inverse correlation between
the EUR/USD and the S&P 500. Each new revelation that the European debt
crisis was deepening led investors to sell both US stocks and the euro. (See
Figure 5-18.) As this correlation tightened, investors actually began to see the
S&P 500 as a proxy for risk. As a result, big moves in the S&P 500 often
preceded—not mirrored—changes in the EUR/USD.
Figure 5-18. Correlation between the EUR/USD and S&P 500

120 Chapter 5 | Fundamental Analysis
Market Correlations
Speaking of correlations, the currency markets are full of them. There are
correlations between currencies and commodities, between currencies and
financial securities, and between multiple currencies. Correlation can be
discerned both through visual comparison and quantitative analysis.
Sometimes, it’s enough to look at a chart of two different indicators (as with
Figure 5-18) and immediately determine whether there is a relationship.
Other times, it’s helpful to know the exact correlation coefficient, which, for
statistics junkies, is the covariance of two data streams divided by the
product of their standard deviations. A coefficient of 1 (or 100%) implies a
perfect direct correlation, and a coefficient of -1 (-100%) implies a perfect
inverse correlation. If the coefficient measures 0, then there isn’t any
relationship between the two variables. While there is certainly disagreement
over what the threshold is for significance, most would agree that a figure
over 80% demonstrates a reasonably strong correlation and over 90%
demonstrates a very strong correlation.
Of course, correlation does not imply causation. Just because two variables
track each other very closely doesn’t mean that one necessarily causes the
other. As with the observable relationship between the S&P 500 and
EUR/USD, it could merely be that an external factor (risk appetite, in this
case) is driving both to behave identically rather than implying that
fluctuations in one are actually causing fluctuations in the other. This is a
very important distinction because only instances of causation are actionable.
Correlations can help us to understand the markets but are not entirely useful
for plotting strategy. On the other hand, if I can determine that a rising S&P
500 Index is directly causing a rising EUR/USD, then I can buy the
EUR/USD when the S&P rises and sell when it falls.
With that in mind, let’s look at some specific examples of correlation.
Commodity prices tend to manifest themselves in currency markets in
several different respects. Commodity currencies may take their cues
directly from commodity prices, especially during periods of economic
expansion. Canada, for example, is dependent on the United States for
energy exports while China’s demand for coal and iron ore drives the
Australian economy. As a result, the Canadian Loonie and the
Australian Aussie are buttressed during commodity price booms. In
the past, the South African rand has exhibited a correlation with gold

Forex for Beginners 121
prices, and the New Zealand dollar has always benefited from rising
agricultural prices.
The role of oil prices in forex is slightly more complex. While there are a
handful of economies around the world (namely, members of OPEC) that are
completely dependent on oil, most are plagued by political instability and
their currencies are not actively traded in the forex markets. The main
exceptions are Norway and Mexico, whose respective krone and peso are
both tied closely to the price of oil.
Much has been written about the relationship between oil prices and the US
dollar. For most of the modern financial era, there was very little correlation
between the two, probably because the price of oil didn’t fluctuate much.
That changed around 2003 when oil prices began a 5-year, 400% climb, and
the downtrend of the US dollar simultaneously accelerated (Figure 5-19). It
was originally hypothesized that the latter caused the former. Since oil was
priced in USD and the dollar was depreciating, oil producers had to raise
their prices in order to offset the foreign exchange losses. Economists later
determined that it was actually the other way around.
Figure 5-19. Rolling 6-month correlation between oil prices and trade-weighted USD (Source:
U.S. Energy Information Administration, Federal Reserve Bank)
High oil prices negatively impact economic growth in the United States. In
addition, the Fed’s core inflation index excludes food and energy prices,
which means that rising oil prices will not likely be followed by higher
interest rates, another negative in the short-term for the dollar. Finally, trade

122 Chapter 5 | Fundamental Analysis
between the United States and OPEC is largely one way, unlike trade
between OPEC and the rest of the world, which means that US oil imports
are not offset by increased exports. The upshot is that in the short term,
significant changes (increases) in the price of oil can explain 50% (based on
a correlation of -0.5) of subsequent changes (decreases) in the dollar, as seen
in Figure 5-19.
Correlations between two or more currencies are the most interesting
and the strongest quantitative relationships in forex. As I explained in
Chapter 2, while there are dozens of liquid currencies, there is simply
too much information for all of them to trade independently of one
another. As a result, most currencies (especially those outside of the
majors) tend to fluctuate relative to the US dollar. Emerging market
currencies, in particular, behave similarly, especially during times
when risk appetite is very strong or very weak. As can be seen in
Figure 5-20, emerging market currencies rose and fell in lockstep for
the first half of 2010. In the second half, risk appetite strengthened and
growth/inflation differentials began to diverge, as did emerging market
currencies.
Figure 5-20. Correlations in emerging market currencies break down
As far as correlations between individual currencies go, they tend to fluctuate
in proportion to market conditions. As a general rule, however, currency

Forex for Beginners 123
correlations have been getting stronger over time. In Figure 5-21 it can
clearly be seen that the correlation between the Canadian and Australian
dollars has been relatively strong for most of the last decade and is currently
nearing 100%!
Figure 5-21. Strengthening correlation between the AUD/USD and CAD/USD
There are a few theories for why this is the case, but the consensus is that
currency markets are converging with other financial markets. Despite
tremendous volume, forex trading was previously relegated to a quiet corner
of finance. As more sophisticated traders expand into forex, they are bringing
pre-existing trading mindsets with them. Many hedge funds, in particular, are
connecting all of their trading operations under the umbrella of one broad
strategy. The result is that algorithms may buy and sell the Canadian and
Australian dollars together when commodity prices are rising, causing the
correlation between these two currencies to become self-fulfillingly strong.
Finally, the rising popularity of index funds (which consist of a basket of
securities designed to represent a particular segment of the markets) has
caused assets that were already correlated to become even more so.
There are a handful of online forex portals that publish real-time correlation
data for the major currencies over different intervals of time. This
information can be used toward a handful of strategic ends, which will be
covered in Chapter 7. For now, consider that they serve as useful gauges for
the strength of various fundamental indicators. For example, let’s say that
one has a theory that rising interest rates are causing the Loonie to rise
against the US dollar. Based on the matrix of correlations displayed in Figure

124 Chapter 5 | Fundamental Analysis
5-22, however, it seems that the USD/CAD is quite strongly correlated
(greater than 80%) with most of the other major currency pairs. This tells us,
then, that the apparent rise in the CAD is better interpreted as a decline in the
USD, and that one should probably look to US factors to explain the
performance of the USD/CAD.
Figure 5-22. Weekly correlation between Canadian dollar and other major currencies (Source:
Forexticket.co.uk)
Debt Analysis
The efficacy of debt as a fundamental analysis tool varies. During periods of
economic growth, the markets tend to pay scant attention to rising debt
levels. As long as the ratio of debt to GDP stays constant, investors operate
under the implicit assumption that the economy will be able to grow its way
out from under the burden of increased debt. As government spending is a
component of economic output, it can even have a positive impact on
currency performance, especially if it doesn’t crowd out private investment.
When growth slows down, however, debt ratios tend to increase relative to
GDP. This is exacerbated by declining tax revenues, the propensity of
governments to increase spending during recessionary periods, and by
consequent cuts in sovereign credit ratings.
Any time this happens, default can quickly become a self-fulfilling prophecy
as governments find it impossible to take out new debt and refinance existing
debt at affordable interest rates. Investors get nervous and respond by
moving money offshore, causing rapid currency depreciation. In fact, this is
exactly what transpired during the credit crisis. Debt had already risen to
alarming levels, but it wasn’t until growth slowed down in 2008 that
investors took stock of the bubble years. Iceland was singled out for its
imprudence, and it wasn’t long before its banks were declared insolvent, its
government defaulted on its debt, and the krona had to be temporarily
replaced by the euro.

Forex for Beginners 125
As far as fundamental analysis goes, there are a couple of ways in which debt
is relevant. First of all, it can be used to forecast the likelihood of full-blown
financial crises. The Economist, for instance, uses three indicators (budget
deficit, net debt, and GDP growth minus the cost of finance) to rank
countries in terms of the sustainability of their debt. Unsurprisingly, the four
PIGS countries of Europe were near the top of the 2010 rankings. Then
again, so were Japan and the United States! (See Table 5-1.)
Table 5-1. Countries Ranked by Sustainability of Debt Position in 2010 (Source: The
Economist, Bloomberg L.P., EIU, OECD)
Budget Balance Net Debt % GDP Growth Less Sovereign Debt,
% of GDP of GDP Cost of Finance Years to Maturity
Greece -4.6 94.6 -3.2 7.7
Ireland -7.0 38.0 -5.1 6.8
Britain -6.7 59.0 -1.5 13.7
Japan -5.9 104.6 0.1 5.4
Portugal -2.7 62.6 -2.3 6.5
Spain -4.3 41.6 -3.0 6.7
France -3.8 60.7 -0.7 6.9
United States -7.0 65.2 1.4 4.8
Poland -5.3 32.4 -0.7 5.2
Italy 2.2 100.8 -1.0 7.2
Hungary 4.2 62.1 -3.5 3.3
Norway -7.8 -143.6 2.4 4.9
Canada -2.7 32.6 2.0 5.2
Switzerland 0.4 11.0 0.5 6.7
In this case, however, it is not debt itself which presages a crisis, but the ease
with which such debt can be financed. The currency markets thus tend to
view bond yields as being most representative of a country’s ability to deal
with debt. A sudden increase in yields can signal the start of a potential
crisis, and currency depreciation tends to follow. In addition, yields adjust in
real-time while debt levels change incrementally. In the case of the

126 Chapter 5 | Fundamental Analysis
Eurozone, sudden spikes in bond yields have often corresponded with
depreciation in the euro. (See Figure 5-23.)
Figure 5-23. Portugal’s 10-year bond yield and EUR/USD, relative change (Source:
Bloomberg L.P.)
Some pessimists have argued that both the actual and the potential increase
in US debt levels could threaten the long-term viability of the US dollar.
Alas, neither credit nor currency markets have priced in the possibility of US
federal government default. And the historic downgrade of the US sovereign
credit rating in August 2011 was met with yawns.
Finally, debt level comparisons have been used to buttress the case for
buying emerging market currencies, whose net debt levels are much lower
than their developed world counterparts. To be sure, this is yet another
reason why emerging market currencies will continue their steady upward
march over the next decade.

Forex for Beginners 127
Monetary Policy and Central Bank
Intervention
I’ve already talked about the role that central banks play in setting interest
rates and tweaking money supply. Here I want to examine some of the other
ways in which they can influence the forex markets.
First are the central banks’ open market operations. Open market operations
are now arguably the most prominent weapon in a central bank’s arsenal.
During periods of recession, when inflation is low, central banks can literally
print money in order to fund purchases of financial securities. The central
bank holds these securities on its balance sheet with the intention of selling
them off once the economic pump has been fully primed and inflation has
taken hold.
In the wake of the credit crisis, the world’s major central banks stunned the
markets with the scope of their open market operations. The Fed’s program
was particularly ambitious. In a process known as quantitative easing, the
Fed purchased almost $3 trillion worth of financial securities in two discrete
blocks. (See Figure 5-24.) Critics worried that the bank had sacrificed its
independence, that it was enabling record US government borrowing, and
that it would foment asset price bubbles and inflation. As a result, the
currency markets punished the dollar severely after each round of
quantitative easing was announced. Whether their concerns were justified
ultimately depends on whether the Federal Reserve Bank can unwind the
program (by selling the securities on its balance sheet back to private
investors) when inflation picks up.
h

128 Chapter 5 | Fundamental Analysis
Figure 5-24. Federal Reserve Bank balance sheet
From the standpoint of fundamental analysis, there is an edge to be gained
from correctly reading the tea leaves and predicting both the beginning and
end of quantitative easing programs. Those that guess right and invest
accordingly will be rewarded with profits. More importantly, fundamental
analysts should understand how quantitative easing can indirectly impact
forex markets in various ways, via a stronger stock market, lower bond
yields, and potentially higher inflation.
Central banks can also attempt to guide their exchange rates through forex
intervention. Most emerging market central banks are active (to varying
degrees) in taking steps to push down their respective currencies, though
countries in Latin America and Asia have been particularly aggressive. This
is typically achieved by selling large chunks of their home currency on the
spot market and can be supported with measures that penalize speculation by
foreign investors. Some central banks have fixed intervention programs in
place. Others spend large amounts on discrete occasions in a bid to
overwhelm the markets. Still others engage in “verbal intervention” without
ever directly entering the markets.
Beginning in 2009, central banks began intervening, one after another, in
vain attempts to prevent their currencies from returning to pre-credit crisis
levels. Even the major central banks contributed with a coordinated
intervention on behalf of the yen, which had strengthened after the March
2011 earthquake. In November 2011, the central banks intervened again with

Forex for Beginners 129
a program of liquidity swaps that was designed to prop up the ailing euro.
The Swiss National Bank, meanwhile, keeps threatening to renew its failed
program to hold down the franc. After a multi-day appreciation, it intervened
verbally and caused the CHF/EUR to raise by an unprecedented 1000 PIPs in
a single trading session! (Note Figure 5-25.) To be sure, all intervention is
doomed to fail over the long term. Over the short term, however, it can quite
spur magnificent spikes.
Figure 5-25. Immediate and medium-term impact of SNB franc intervention
When central banks intervene, they inadvertently provide support for
opposing currencies. In other words, a central bank cannot simply sell its
home currency; it must simultaneously buy an opposing currency. As I
explained in Chapter 3, this drives the accumulation of currency reserves.
That most central banks disproportionately prefer USD-denominated assets is
a huge source of support for the US dollar. While there are frequent
indications that this could change, problems with the other major currencies
(most recently with the euro) favor a continuation of the status quo.
Emerging market currencies meanwhile remain subject to liquidity and other
logistical complications that hinder their broad adoption as reserve
currencies. Nevertheless, central banks collectively represent one of the
largest long-term players in the forex markets, and fundamental analysts
must closely monitor this situation for any signs of change.

130 Chapter 5 | Fundamental Analysis
Political Factors
The role of politics in financial markets has always been difficult to quantify.
Generally speaking, elections and changes in political administrations tend to
have only a psychological impact on forex markets. This is especially true in
the case of the United States, where economic policy has not changed
significantly over the last few decades. Free trade has been gradually
embraced, tax rates have edged down slightly, corporations have become
more profitable, budget deficits have become the norm as spending has
surged, the business cycle is increasingly driven by financial factors, and so
forth. To be sure, policy may shift to the right or to the left depending on
which party holds power. For the most part, though, the overall trend has
remained intact. As a result, elections tend to offer very little insight into how
a particular currency will perform during the years that follow. Instead,
financial-economic factors tend to carry more weight. As can be seen from
Figure 5-26, former President Bill Clinton can claim the dubious distinction
of being the only US president to witness an overall rise in the US dollar
while in office. This was probably less due to the nuances of his economic
policy, however, than the economic and stock market boom that began in the
late 1990s and carried over into the presidency of George W. Bush.
That’s not to say that politics are irrelevant. On the contrary, the whims of
governments can cause significant gyrations in the forex markets. For
example, the US dollar suffered mightily when the US Congress temporarily
balked at raising the US borrowing limit in May 2011. Meanwhile, political
developments in Europe continue to drive the euro, whose very existence
seems to hinge on political life support.

Forex for Beginners 131
Figure 5-26. USD Trade-weighted index and corresponding US president
Emerging market currencies are perhaps most sensitive to political
developments, because their governments are more likely to pay attention to
and take steps to influence the value of their currencies. While this task is
supposed to be delegated to independent central banks, in practice it is
subject to political meddling. For example, if the incumbent government of
Brazil makes a strong export sector the cornerstone of its economic policy, it
may instruct the Bank of Brazil to actively take steps to hold down the real.
This practice reached an extreme from 2010–2011, as cash (spurred by loose
monetary policies in industrialized countries) began to pour into emerging
markets, causing their currencies to appreciate rapidly. Emerging market
central banks fought back and, one after another, sought to devalue their
respective currencies. Before long, a full-scale currency war had erupted, and
emergency meetings of the G7 and G20 were convened. It wasn’t until late
2011 (when the European sovereign debt crisis flared up and risk appetite
cratered) that the currency wars began to fade, once again underscoring that
political factors are less important than financial-economic factors.

132 Chapter 5 | Fundamental Analysis
Conclusion
If there is any lesson to be learned from the preceding discussion, it is that
there are no cut-and-dried rules in fundamental analysis. In understanding
how numerous variables impact exchange rates, one must first understand the
particular narrative that is guiding the markets at any given time. Whether
risk appetite is strong or weak, whether a currency has or has not been
targeted by carry traders, whether an interest rate change has been anticipated
in advance are all factors that will ultimately determine the market reaction.
Fundamental analysis merely provides a framework for understanding these
narratives.

Forex for Beginners 133

C H A P T E R
6
Technical
Analysis
Analyzing Exchange Rates
Based on Technical Factors
Technical analysis is grounded in the notion that price data alone is all that is
needed to forecast future price movements. While simple in theory, technical
analysis is extremely complex in practice. There are dozens of basic
technical trading strategies, incorporating hundreds of tools and thousands of
different iterations. To master (let alone attempt to utilize) more than a
handful of these tools would be unrealistic or even counterproductive.
Accordingly, in the sections that follow, I have tried to pare down the vast
spectrum of technical analysis strategies into a manageable number, with an
emphasis on those that are easy to use, quantitative, and compatible with
fundamental analysis.
Charts
A trader’s best friend is his chart, and this is especially true for technical
traders. With time on the x-axis and price on the y-axis, a chart is the most
basic visual representation of the historical exchange rate performance for a
given currency pair. If only it were that simple! One must first select the
chart type, variously depicted in Figure 6-1. Line charts and area charts
connect individual price points over a given period of time. Technical traders
prefer bar or candlestick charts—which show opening, closing, high, and low

136 Chapter 6 | Technical Analysis
prices for each unit of time, and are color-coded to distinguish upward and
downward movements—because of the depth of information that they
contain.
Figure 6-1. Examples of different chart types
In fact, there is a branch of technical analysis devoted to the study of
candlestick formations, with a system of Japanese nomenclature to boot.
Individual formations (some of which are depicted in Figure 6-2) can be
interpreted as being bullish, bearish, or stable, and series of formations can
potentially indicate good times to buy and sell. Alas, candlestick analysis is
exceedingly intricate, and it extends beyond the scope of this book. For those
of you interested in learning more, I would recommend consulting one of the
numerous books that have been written about the subject.

Forex for Beginners 137
Figure 6-2. Basic candlestick formations and their interpretations
Anyway, the next step in setting up a chart is to select the overall time frame
(e.g., one year, one month, one day, one hour) and the unit of time (e.g., one
day, five minutes, one minute). While seemingly trivial, the time frame of
your chart is actually a very important consideration. Different lengths of
time may show different—and sometimes contradictory—trends. Naturally,
it’s best to select a time period that is consistent with your trading horizon. If
you plan to follow the swing trading approach advocated in this book, it
makes sense to look at price data on 3–12 month time frame. If, in contrast,
you are an aspiring day trader, you probably won’t be able to glean anything
useful from a chart covering anything longer than one week.
In fact, as you can see in Figure 6-3, selecting the wrong time scale for your
chart could yield disastrous consequences. Specifically, if you bought the
EUR/GBP based on your interpretation of the 30-minute inset chart, you
probably would have lost money on the trade. If you instead had taken the
time to examine a medium-term (five-hour) chart, you would have clearly

138 Chapter 6 | Technical Analysis
noticed that the overall trend was still bearish. Sure enough, the EUR/GBP
resumed its downward arc immediately after the slight correction. The lesson
here is that it’s important to have a broad perspective when performing any
kind of analysis.
Figure 6-3. Multiple time scale analysis
Some charting software also includes data on volume and open interest. Due
to the decentralized nature of spot forex trading, however, both are calculated
based primarily on activity in the futures or options markets. Volume tends to
ebb and flow in accordance with daily and seasonal patterns; the open and
closing of the main markets, as well as the middle of the week (go figure!),
tend to see the greatest volume. Volume spikes during news releases and falls
off around major holidays and during the summer when traders are away
from their desks. This is also reflected in terms of lower volatility. (See
Figure 6-4.)

Forex for Beginners 139
Figure 6-4. Average USD/EUR volatility, by month
Volume can also be used as proxy for momentum and to confirm the
existence of trends. For instance, if the EUR/USD suddenly experiences an
upside break-out after a period of flat trading, you might see a corresponding
surge in volume as traders rush to buy the EUR/USD before it loses its
upward momentum.
Open interest, meanwhile, reflects futures positions that have not yet been
settled by offsetting positions. When a new long position is opened, open
interest rises while the closing of a long position (or the opening of a short
position) will cause open interest to fall. Since real-time open interest is
available only through futures and options brokers, most spot forex portals
will use the Commitments of Traders (COT) data as a proxy. Every Friday
afternoon, the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) releases its
weekly COT report, which shows long and short positions for various
financial and commodity futures and options contracts. Overall open interest
for each contract is calculated, and data is further broken down among the
different types of participants. As can be seen from Figure 6-5, there is often
a tight relationship between open interest and spot prices. In this case, the
longest sustained rise in the New Zealand dollar in 2011 was preceded by a
bottoming out of open interest.

140 Chapter 6 | Technical Analysis
Figure 6-5. Open interest in the New Zealand dollar, relative to NZD/USD spot price (Source:
CFTC)
Trend Analysis
“The trend is your friend” is one of the oldest adages in technical analysis.
Without trends, technical analysis would be meaningless and trades would be
random. The goal is to determine whether a currency pair is currently caught
in an uptrend, downtrend, or sideways trend. Profits accrue to those that are
able to anticipate the beginnings and ends of trends and trade accordingly.
The most basic level of trend analysis involves a visual inspection of the
chart. Those with well-trained eyes will immediately notice any trends. It can
also be helpful to draw lines (which most charting software packages enable)
directly onto the chart. You can see from the chart in Figure 6-6, for
example, that there are a handful of trends that seem to both dictate and
delimit movement in the EUR/CHF. Over one and a half years, there were
several medium-term trends apparent to the naked eye. Sometimes, the trends
were so robust that even after sudden upside or downside aberrations, the
original trend was restored. This was the case in September 2011. Other
times, the pair is prevented from falling or rising by support or resistance
lines, respectively. Recall from Chapter 3 that while somewhat arbitrary,
these levels often represent real barriers to momentum in one or both
directions. They tend to form at round numbers, and their existence can be

Forex for Beginners 141
confirmed when rates (repeatedly) “bounce” off of them upon contact. When
there is both support and resistance, the pair is said to be trading in a channel.
The breaching of the channel walls signals the potential start of a significant
uptrend or downtrend. This phenomenon is known as a breakout.
Figure 6-6. Trend spotting in the EUR/CHF
There are also a handful of shapes and chart patterns that provide guidance
for spotting trend continuations and reversals. Double tops, double bottoms,
head and shoulders, and other patterns are grounded in the notion that before
a trend reverses, it will usually hesitate and do a slight about-face (or two).
As can be seen in Figure 6-7, the change in the AUD/JPY from long-term
uptrend to long-term downtrend was heralded by a double top. Other times,
trends will reverse suddenly and squeeze those that are caught on the wrong
side of the trade. These sudden reversals are usually accompanied by a surge
in volume and indicated by a V-formation on the chart. Triangles, wedges,
and pennants, on the other hand, usually imply trend continuation. These
formations are caused when positions are consolidated in the midst of a
strong trend, causing price gyrations to get smaller and smaller until a
continuation becomes inevitable. In this case, we should expect the

142 Chapter 6 | Technical Analysis
AUD/JPY to resume its downward trend following the triangular
consolidation.
Figure 6-7. Trend reversal and continuation patterns in the AUD/JPY
Admittedly, spotting trends is more of an art than a science; hindsight is
20/20. To be sure, drawing crude shapes onto charts may seem a little silly.
Still, the ideas of trends, support, and resistance have strong underpinnings in
human psychology. For example, the crowd mentality and dealer complicity
can turn slight directional momentum into veritable trends. Remember also
that correlations within the financial markets are strengthening, and investor
risk appetite is becoming the dominant driver of asset prices. Frequent
changes in risk appetite are causing prices to slide up and down in
movements that most observers would call “trends.” Finally, support and
resistance can become self-fulfilling, as certain levels become
psychologically important and trigger sudden surges in buying and selling. In
this case, the goal is not to outsmart the market but to simply ride the wave
that others may be creating.

Forex for Beginners 143
Pivot Points
Pivot points represent the starting point for trend forecasting. A pivot point is
simply the average of a currency pair’s high, low, and closing prices for a
given period of time (typically one 24-hour trading session). From this one
number, three separate support and resistance levels can be calculated using
standardized methods and then plotted directly onto a forex chart. The idea is
that in the following trading session, the currency pair should meet support
and/or resistance at these pre-defined levels. If a pair moves easily through
these levels, it probably signifies particularly bullish or bearish sentiment.
Traders prize pivot points for their simplicity and, as a result, many
professional analysts include them in the daily technical reports that they
make public. In addition, since pivot points are calculated objectively, they
will appear the same on all charts and may thus become self-fulfilling.
Therefore, it shouldn’t come as a surprise if a currency actually meets
support or resistance at the levels “predicted” by the pivot points. Sure
enough, it is
at “Support 2” that the USD/CHF depicted in Figure 6-8 encounters
resistance.

144 Chapter 6 | Technical Analysis
Figure 6-8. Pivot Points in the USD/CHF
Elliot Wave Principle
Elliot Wave Principle (EWP) attempts to bring something akin to a scientific
perspective to charting. Trend spotters are content with simply identifying
trends, so they are liable to take them at face value. For Ralph Elliot who
formulated EWP, this was not enough. After years spent analyzing stock
market gyrations, he concluded that asset prices move in smooth waves.
Ranging from multi-century “grand supercycle” waves to “subminuette”
waves that last mere minutes, these fluctuations are theoretically caused by
the swing of investor energy between optimism and pessimism.
EWP holds that all waves follow a predictable pattern, which can be seen in
Figure 6-9. In the first upward swing of a bullish, dominant trend (1),
investors remain hesitant, and the asset price will soon hit resistance and
move back downward. Due to declining bearishness, opportunistic investors
will enter the market (2), and the price will find support above the uptrend’s
initial starting point. Here, a surge in bullish sentiment and the recognition of

Forex for Beginners 145
an uptrend (3) will carry the asset price to a new high. At some point it will
meet resistance and trend sideways or downward (4), sometimes for quite a
while. However, bullish investors will continue to pile in and the asset price
will once again surge upward (5). At this point, it’s not uncommon for
bearish investors to begin sounding the alarm, setting the stage for the end of
the uptrend. After peaking, the asset price will retrace downwards (A), the
first move in the corrective trend. Fragments of bullishness will prevent the
asset price from falling indefinitely; after finding support, it will turn right
around (B). However, the corrective trend has already started to form, and
the asset price will now trend downward in five separate waves (C).
Figure 6-9. Elliot Wave Principle in action.
EWP has plenty of critics, which is perhaps why it remained unknown for
more than three decades after it was initially developed. Many financial
economists have argued that there is no evidence of it in financial markets
and that its appearance is purely coincidental. In addition, EWP was initially
developed for the stock market, which rises over the long term. It’s unclear

146 Chapter 6 | Technical Analysis
whether it is compatible with the forex market where every bull market must
be offset by a bear market.
On the other hand, the theory makes intuitive sense, and there are many forex
traders that swear by it. There are hundreds of websites and newsletters
devoted exclusively to EWP, and it has given rise to many unique trading
strategies.
Fibonacci Analysis
EWP is consistent with and commonly used with a mathematical
phenomenon known as the Fibonacci sequence. Named after the Italian
mathematician that popularized it, this idea is quite simple. The first two
numbers are 0 and 1, and every number that follows is merely the sum of the
previous two, as follows: 0, 1, 1, 2, 3, 5, 8, 13, 21, 34, 55, 89, and so on. It
turns out that this mundane sequence has some interesting properties.
Namely, when you take it out far enough, the relationship between all of the
numbers converges toward hard ratios. For instance, any number in the
sequence divided by the number that precedes it is always 1.618 (e.g., 55/34)
while any number divided by the one that follows it is always .618 (e.g.,
34/55). Any number divided by the second number that follows is always
.382 (e.g., 34/89), and so on. As a result, mathemeticians have developed a
handful of golden ratios: 23.6%, 38.2%, 50%, 61.8% and 100%.
While this may seem irrelevant, it turns out that these ratios appear
frequently in biology and explain everything from the way that branches
form on trees to the mating habits of certain animals. It should come as no
surprise then that somebody (none other than Ralph Elliot!) thought to apply
it to the fluctuation of asset prices.
Elliot observed that the second wave in the dominant trend of EWP should
retrace less than 61.8% from the peak of wave 1. Wave 3, meanwhile, should
extend 1.618% from the bottom of wave 2, and wave 4 (you guessed it) often
retraces 38.2% from the top of wave 3. Similar patterns appear in the A, B, C
waves of the corrective trend in Figure 6-9. Sure enough, you can see from
Figure 6-10 (the same one I used in Figure 6-9 to diagram the main wave
formation) that the EUR/USD appears to bump up against several of the
support/resistance lines predicted by the Fibonacci sequence and EWP.

Forex for Beginners 147
Figure 6-10. Application of Fibonacci retracement and extension to EUR/USD chart
The application of the Fibonacci sequence to the financial markets has
become a staple of technical analysis. Both Fibonacci retracements and
Fibonacci extensions can easily be layered onto charts with the mere click of
a button using the most basic charting software. In this case, you can see that
the EUR/USD finds resistance in wave 2 at exactly the 50% level and meets
support at the 100% level at wave 3. For practitioners of Fibonacci analysis
and subscribers to EWP, these levels represent obvious points to buy and
sell, respectively.
Of course, the identification of specific waves and the overlay of Fibonacci
lines still require some guesswork. Some technical analysts thus grow
immediately frustrated with the inherent subjectivity of charting. Fortunately,
there are numerous quantitative indicators that can be used to enhance or
supplement visual analysis.

148 Chapter 6 | Technical Analysis
Moving Averages
The most basic quantitative indicator is the moving average (MA). Just like it
sounds, an MA shows how the average price of a security (or in this case, a
currency pair) changes over time. As a technical tool, it is useful for a few
key reasons. First of all, it smooths price data. Because it is an average
calculation, significant fluctuations in the underlying exchange rate generate
smaller fluctuations in the moving average. By eliminating noise, an MA
may provide a clearer picture of a trend than a plain price chart. Secondly,
MAs can guide position entry and exit. When compared to the underlying
currency pair (or to other MAs) it may confirm the start of a bullish or
bearish trend. Of course, it’s important to understand that an MA is
intrinsically a following indicator. That means that it will only generate
trading signals after potential trends have already begun to take shape.
There are a handful of different types of MAs. While conceptually the same,
they are calculated using slightly different methods in order to satisfy
different objectives. The simple moving average (SMA) is an arithmetic
average of prices. Since all prices in the series are given equal weight, an
SMA line is usually the smoothest type of MA. On the other hand, since old
prices are treated the same as new prices, SMAs take longer to register
sudden changes in underlying prices. Indeed, you can see from Figure 6-11
that it takes longer for the SMA (represented by the blue line) to reflect the
start of both the uptrend and the downtrend in the EUR/USD.

Forex for Beginners 149
Figure 6-11. Comparison of SMA, EMA, and SMMA
In contrast, a weighted moving average (WMA) assigns the greatest
importance to the most recent price and incrementally decreases the weight
to every point thereafter, such that the oldest prices receive the least weight.
An exponential moving average (EMA) takes a similar approach, but
weightings decrease exponentially rather than in even increments. EMAs
register shifts in trends almost immediately. This hypersensitivity can be a
strength—because it enables traders to profit from trends at their
inception—but also a weakness, in the form of false signals. Finally,
smoothed moving averages (SMMAs) aim to further eliminate noise
(aberrant price spikes) so that only the raw trend remains. Of the three main
types of MAs, SMMAs are the smoothest but are also the slowest at
registering trends.
Most charting software is programmed to calculate MAs based on closing
prices, though some can be rejiggered to incorporate high/low price data as
well. The only parameter that these programs will ask traders to supply is the
duration/number of prices. Including more points will result in a flatter MA.

150 Chapter 6 | Technical Analysis
This is immediately apparent in Figure 6-12, which shows 5-day, 20-day, and
60-day MAs for the same underlying currency pair.
Figure 6-12. Altering the number of prices affects the moving average’s appearance
MAs can be calculated for any interval of time. Changing the chart’s time
unit (from five minutes to one day, for example) will naturally produce a
different MA. As I explained in the previous section, you should focus on a
length of time that is consistent with your trading time horizon. Even if it
produces stronger signals, an MA based on five-minute data will not really
help you if you are planning to hold positions for a month. As for the ideal
number of price points that should be included in the moving average, there
is no right answer. Some forex gurus swear by the set of 4, 9, and 18. Others
prefer 7, 21, and 90. What’s most important is that when looking at multiple
MAs, the different periods should be spaced out so that they can produce
clear signals.
In fact, the best way to utilize the MA as a trading tool is to look at multiple
time periods simultaneously. Figure 6-12 shows how the EUR/USD was

Forex for Beginners 151
range bound for several months before it dropped precipitously. If I had
developed a rule to sell whenever the short-term MA (5 days) dips below the
long-term MA (60 days), I would have received an excellent signal just as
the EUR/USD had begun to drop. On the other hand, this rule also produced
two false signals and would have basically prevented me from capturing any
part of the massive 1000 PIP upside correction that followed! While it might
be possible to tweak the number of days in each MA to improve robustness,
this example shows that there is no such thing as a surefire technical trading
rule.
Moving Average Envelopes
and Bollinger Bands
There are a handful of other technical indicators that are derived from the
MA. The MA envelope, for example, is grounded in the idea that MAs can
be used to identify points of support and resistance. The theory is that asset
prices will never stray too far from a trend, designated in this case by the MA
itself. When a currency pair rises too far above or falls too far below its MA,
it could be an indication that a reversal is imminent. In addition, when a pair
completely breaches the walls of the envelope, it could signal a breakout.
To plot an MA envelope, the first step is to plot the MA itself. In Figure
6-13, I used a 10-day SMA. Next, select the percentage above and percentage
below the MA that will form your envelope. The exact percentage will
depend on your investing horizon and the volatility in the currency pair that
you are observing and will most likely be arrived at through trial and error.
(There are no golden numbers for MA envelopes that apply universally to all
currencies.)
Of course, you need to select percentages that are meaningful. If the pair
bumps up against the envelope too frequently, you will receive false signals.
If the envelope is too wide, however, the currency pair will never breach it,
and you won’t receive any signals at all. I solved this problem by plotting
two envelopes in Figure 6-13. The blue (inner) envelope is 1.5% above and
below the 10-day moving average while the red (outer) lines delimit a 2%
envelope.

152 Chapter 6 | Technical Analysis
Figure 6-13. AUD / USD with 10-day MA envelopes
Based on this configuration, the MA envelopes produce an abundance of sell
signals. For the first two months, when the pair is range bound, the
AUD/USD moves through the 1.5% resistance but bounces off the 2%
resistance. For whatever reason, the lower envelope doesn’t provide such
strong support. Then the pair completely smashes through this support on
two separate occasions, providing two good opportunities to sell. On the way
back up, it smashes through the resistance the first time around but bumps up
against it the second time.
Bollinger bands take the idea of the MA envelope one step further. Since the
upper and lower bounds of an MA envelope are fixed in percentage terms,
the width never changes. Bollinger bands, in contrast, narrow and expand in
synch with actual market conditions. That’s because they are configured as a
function of volatility. When a pair is range bound, the Bollinger bands form a
tight envelope around it. When a sudden upside or downside move takes
place, the Bollinger bands widen proportionately.

Forex for Beginners 153
This unique characteristic of Bollinger bands is reflected in Figure 6-14,
which depicts the same AUD/USD pair as in Figure 6-13. When the pair is
range bound, the Bollinger bands provide the same support and resistance as
the MA envelopes in Figure 6-13. In Figure 6-14, however, the breakouts are
accompanied by a widening of the band (due to an increase in volatility),
underscoring the momentum that has coalesced around the new trend.
Bollinger bands, then, are especially useful for forecasting breakouts. In
general, the steeper the expansion of the band, the stronger the trend.
Bollinger bands can be adjusted just like MA envelopes. Instead of keying in
a percentage, however, you need to select the number of standard deviations
(also known as volatility) away from the mean that will form the upper and
lower bounds of the band. As with MA envelopes, establishing a golden
number may take some trial and error.
Despite their overall effectiveness, MA envelopes and Bollinger bands are
not without weaknesses. Namely, they are basically useless when trends
change suddenly. You may have noticed that the breakouts depicted in
Figure 6-13 and Figure 6-14 actually started to take place before they were
picked up by the Bollinger bands. On the one hand, the trend reversal that I
have pointed out in Figure 6-14 below caused the MA to turn upward almost
immediately.

154 Chapter 6 | Technical Analysis
Figure 6-14. Bollinger bands of 1.5, 2, and 2.5 standard deviations
At the same time, it wasn’t until the pair had exhausted most of its upward
momentum that it finally crashed through the upward bound of the yellow
Bollinger band. By this point, most of the profit potential had disappeared.
Parabolic Stop and Reverse
The Parabolic Stop and Reverse (Parabolic SAR) is one of the easiest
technical tools to understand and interpret, but it is also among the least
reliable. It is based on the notion that once trends form, they need to build
momentum rapidly. Otherwise, investors will lose interest, and the trend will
peter out just as quickly as it started. The indicator uses a complex formula to
predict the beginnings and ends of trends, both of which are represented by a
series of red dots that appear directly on the price chart. Buy at the beginning
of an uptrend, where the red dots are below the actual price and rising, and
sell when the Parabolic SAR switches to downtrend, where the red dots are
above the price point and falling. To build in a margin of error, perhaps you

Forex for Beginners 155
might consider waiting until the trend has reached three periods (three dots)
before acting.
If only it were that simple. In Figure 6-15, the Parabolic SAR has identified
seven discrete trends, each of which is separated by vertical lines. As can be
seen by the actual and predicted trends (represented by the blue and black
lines that I painted on for illustrative purposes), the Parabolic SAR was
ultimately more often wrong than it was right!
Figure 6-15. Example of the Parabolic SAR
Oscillators
Oscillators represent a distinct category of technical indicators—one that is
more complex and potentially more profound. Oscillators work by
normalizing asset price data to a scale (of 0 to 100, for example) so that
overbought and oversold conditions can easily be identified. Most charting
software will enable you to view multiple oscillators simultaneously by
plotting individual oscillators below the main price chart.

156 Chapter 6 | Technical Analysis
There are a handful of ways in which readings from oscillators can be
interpreted and utilized. First, when a value reaches an extreme level, it is
supposed to indicate that investor sentiment has also reached an extreme
level and that a correction is imminent. Second, when an oscillator crosses
over from positive territory into negative territory (and vice versa), it
suggests that a trend is about to reverse. Finally, divergences between
oscillators and the underlying currency pairs may signal that a trend is about
to come to an end. There may also be additional interpretations, but these
three are most common.
As for which approach is best, it depends not only on the specific oscillator,
the asset in question (in this case forex), and prevailing market conditions,
but also on the person that is performing the analysis. Some experts harp on
crossovers, while others insist that divergences provide the best signals. Still
others may promote the use of oscillators in combination with other
indicators. As with other technical analysis indicators, there is no singular or
correct way to incorporate oscillators into one’s trading strategy.
With all of this in mind, let’s look at a few of the most popular oscillators.
Moving Average Convergence Divergence
The Moving Average Convergence Divergence (MACD), a popular leading
oscillator, represents the difference between two exponential moving
averages (EMAs) of different durations. The theory is that when the short-
term MA suddenly crosses a long-term MA, their intersection could signal
the start of a trend. In order to enhance the MACD’s signaling power, it is
plotted against an MA of itself in the form of a histogram.
Before your head starts to spin, let’s look at a concrete example. You can see
from the USD/CAD chart in Figure 6-16 that when the 12-day EMA crosses
below the 26-day EMA, the MACD line plotted below similarly moves into
negative territory. By itself, this could be interpreted as a signal to sell. When
the MACD crosses below the 9-day MA of itself, the bar chart also
undergoes a crossover from positive to negative territory, and this produces
yet another sell signal. All of these signals are indicated by vertical dotted
lines.
There are several additional observations that can be made about the MACD.
First of all, the default settings are 12, 26, and 9 days (for the short-term
EMA, long-term EMA, and MACD MA, respectively). You can easily

Forex for Beginners 157
change these parameters using charting software, which will obviously
produce slightly different signals. Secondly, the MACD is prone to false
signals since it may hover at an extreme level (or move back and forth
between positive and negative territory) for many successive periods. Sure
enough, the USD/CAD continues rising shortly after the second sell signal in
Figure 6-16. Third, the imminent reversal signaled by the MACD may not
take place for several periods after sentiment reaches an extreme level,
exposing traders to risk in the interim. Any trader that put in a sell order for
the USD/CAD following the final sell signal in Figure 6-16 may very well
have experienced losses before the CAD/USD began to trend downward.
Figure 6-16. MACD in practice
Stochastic Oscillator
A stochastic oscillator uses changes in momentum as a basis for predicting
changes in price. Specifically, it seeks to establish where the current price of
an asset stands relative to its range over a recent period of time. This
calculation (%K) is then compared to a moving average of itself (%D). The

158 Chapter 6 | Technical Analysis
chartist must select both the number of periods (typically 14 or 20) for the
%K calculation and the number of periods (typically 3 or 5) for the %D
calculation. This is known as a fast stochastic and is shown in the middle
panel in Figure 6-17. Those that are not satisfied with the fast stochastic
and/or have longer trading horizons can utilize a slow stochastic, which
simply uses the fast stochastic as its starting point (also known as its %K)
and performs yet another moving average. This slow stochastic is typically
smoother and should generate fewer false signals. It is displayed in the
bottom panel in Figure 6-17.
Figure 6-17. Using fast and slow stochastics to identify buy and sell opportunities
Stochastic oscillators fluctuate between 0 and 100, and most technicians use
the thresholds of 20% and 80%, respectively, as basis for identifying
oversold and overbought conditions. Since a currency pair may remain at an
extreme level for quite some time as a result of sustained buying or selling
pressure, it makes sense to wait until the stochastic has reversed—when the
%D crosses the %K—before acting. It’s also worth looking at where the

Forex for Beginners 159
stochastic currently reads relative to the halfway point. Below 50% implies
that the pair is trading in the bottom half of its recent range and suggests
bearishness. The opposite is true for readings above 50%.
Consistent with Figure 6-17, fast stochastics typically produce more signals
(and more noise) than slow stochastics. That being said, each time the fast
stochastic rose above 80 and then contracted sharply, the EUR/JPY followed
suit. The dozen or so declines in the fast stochastic to below 20 meanwhile
seem to coincide nicely with declines in the EUR/JPY. While the slow
stochastic produces even fewer signals—potentially causing its followers to
miss good trading opportunities—most of these signals are quite accurate. In
short, you should understand that increasing the number of periods should
produce clearer but fewer signals.
Relative Strength Index and
Commodity Channel Index
The Relative Strength Index (RSI) is similar to the stochastic oscillator. The
RSI formula normalizes changes in momentum to an index from 0 to 100,
where readings above 70 and below 30 represent overbought and oversold
conditions, respectively. Whereas a stochastic indicator compares the most
recent closing price with a trading range for a given number of periods, the
RSI merely examines only upward and downward movements in price for a
given period.
If the number of upward price movements exceeds the number of downward
price movements, the RSI will increase. In theory, when the RSI crosses one
of its twin thresholds (70 and 30, typically), it signifies that momentum has
reached an extreme level and a reversal may be imminent. In addition, the
appearance of resistance (support) in an RSI when the underlying currency is
sharply rising (falling) implies difficulty sustaining upward (downward)
momentum and could similarly herald a correction.
The commodity channel index (CCI) also measures momentum, but it does so
by comparing the current price level to a simple moving average of itself
over a given number of periods. Fluctuations between -100 and +100 are
considered normal while movements outside of that band hint toward a
reversal. For the best signal, it’s advisable to wait until the CCI crosses back
through one of the boundary lines before acting.

160 Chapter 6 | Technical Analysis
The only variable traders need to input into their charting software to
compute either an RSI or CCI is the number of periods. Naturally, a lower
number will generate more sensitive readings. In Figure 6-18, I used 14
periods and 20 periods, respectively, for the RSI and CCI, which are the
default settings in most charting software.
Figure 6-18. Downward reversals in the USD/CHF take place when the RSI crosses 70 and
the CCI falls back below 100
As you see from the chart above, the accuracy and simplicity of the RSI are
impressive, which explains why it is one of the most popular technical
indicators. The two biggest reversals in the USD/CHF coincide with an RSI
peak of slightly above 70 (indicated by the vertical black lines). Figure 6-18
also illustrates how using two indicators together can produce especially
robust signals. Since the CCI rises above 100 and falls below -100 on several
occasions (as indicated by the vertical gray lines), it helps to have another
indicator with which to compare it. When used together, the RSI and CCI
yield two very strong sell signals, both of which are followed by
retracements in the USD/CHF. In fact, these two indicators are beeping

Forex for Beginners 161
loudly at the present (rightmost end of the chart), suggesting that another
correction might come soon!
Awesome Oscillator
There are actually hundreds of different technical indicators and an infinite
number of iterations and ways to combine them. In fact, when researching
this book, I came across a handful that I had never even heard of before, and
anyone with an imagination and a basic programming ability could create a
new one. How about the Kritzer Index?
In fact, the awesome oscillator may very well have been invented by a
technical analyst with too much time on his hands. It compares the 34-period
MA with the 5-period MA, and the result is a histogram that moves back and
forth across a 0-line. When the oscillator crosses firmly through this line, it
generates a buy signal. The inventor of the awesome oscillator has also
suggested that two peaks (or troughs) might also provide a strong signal.
Unfortunately, based on the way the awesome oscillator is constructed, it
inherently provides concurrent (rather than advance) signals. In other words,
when the 5-day MA crosses the 34-day MA, it may already be too late to
buy. This is clearly evident in Figure 6-19; the strongest buying signal
doesn’t come until after the massive 10% correction has already taken place.

162 Chapter 6 | Technical Analysis
Figure 6-19. Awesome oscillator produces signals that lag actual price movements
Summary
As you may have sensed, this overview represents only the tip of the
technical analysis iceberg. The indicators that I selected for inclusion in this
book are those that I believe are most compatible with trend trading and
fundamental analysis. Consider that entire books have been written not only
about technical analysis but also about specific aspects of technical analysis.
For those of you that plan to approach trading from technical perspective, I
would certainly recommend delving deeper into the subject on your own.
I have tried to present technical analysis in a way that is straightforward and
intuitive. While it’s not necessary to memorize the formulas for calculating
the various indicators in your technical arsenal, it nonetheless is important to
understand how they are calculated. If you can avoid taking the indicators at
face value, you will be rewarded with a fuller understanding of what you are
seeing in their readouts.

Forex for Beginners 163
In concluding this chapter, I would like to offer a couple of caveats regarding
technical analysis. First, charts and technical indicators often produce unclear
or conflicting signals. For that reason, it’s worth using a couple of indicators
together in order to optimize their effectiveness. Recall that in Figure 6-18,
the RSI and CCI produced incredibly accurate signals when used together. At
the same time, don’t get carried away and try to develop technical trading
rules that are based on too many indicators. Figure 6-20 takes this idea to a
comical extreme. The chart is so cluttered that it’s hardly even possible to see
the underlying movements in the EUR/USD, let alone to make a reasonable
interpretation and open a position!
Figure 6-20. Extreme example of a chart with too many indicators
Second, consider that the flexibility of technical analysis is a potential pitfall
as much as it is a benefit. While it might seem convenient that technical
analysis can theoretically be applied to all asset prices at all times, this could
lead to arbitrariness and laziness. In other words, it’s important to tweak the
parameters of individual indicators and to experiment with different

164 Chapter 6 | Technical Analysis
combinations of indicators until you find one that seems to fit the particular
currency pair at a particular time, as well as your particular strategy.
Finally, technical analysis is far from foolproof. To be sure, it’s very easy to
find examples of currency behavior that accord perfectly with the signals
produced by technical indicators. However, there are just as many
counterexamples. That’s because technical indicators are not really designed
to predict the future; all they can do is reorient the way that we see the past.
They can convert seemingly random currency movements into smooth lines
and indexes that are easy to interpret so that you might have a better idea of
what is apparently happening in the present. As for what will happen next,
well, that is a different story altogether.

C H A P T E R
7
Trading
Strategy
Using a Combination of Analytical
Tools to Develop a Trading
Strategy
In Chapter 5 and Chapter 6, I offered overviews of both fundamental and
technical analysis. Together, these chapters address the majority of the
factors that cause exchange rates to fluctuate. At this point, then, you should
have all of the basic tools necessary to make sense of past exchange rate
movements and to make well calculated forecasts of future trends. The next
step is to incorporate these tools into a concrete trading strategy.
Strategies can be broken down across many different lines. Short-term
strategies must be distinguished from long-term strategies. Strategies based
on fundamental analysis will be different than strategies based on technical
analysis. Trading the news, on the other hand, falls into a category of its own.
Leveraged spot trading will require a different kind of strategy from trading
currency options. And so on.
Ultimately, the strategy that you adopt should be tailored to your specific
circumstances, including financial situation, risk appetite, time horizon, and
investment objectives. In order to aid you in your efforts to create a unique,
personalized approach to forex, I would like to offer a handful of general
strategies, which are outlined in this chapter.

166 Chapter 7 | Trading Strategy
Long-Term Fundamental Strategy
Long-term fundamental strategy is perhaps the easiest to plan and execute. It
is akin to the buy-and-hold strategy practiced by many stock and bond
market investors. The goal is to identify currency pairs that are
fundamentally misaligned on a current and/or projected basis. More
specifically, it could be the case that a particular exchange rate seems to be
justified by current financial-economic fundamentals but that expected
changes in fundamentals would require a proportional change in the
exchange rate.
A long-term bet on a currency pair may vary in duration from a few months
to a few years, though you should enter any such trade with the expectation
of holding the investment for six months to one year. If the projected
movement takes place earlier than expected, you might decide to “take
profits” and move on to a different bet. If, after a year, the expected
movement hasn’t materialized, you might similarly decide to move on.
Alternatively, if circumstances suggest that your original forecast remains
valid, you might decide to stay the course.
Those of you with a long-term fundamental outlook could engage with the
forex market from an existing investment account. If you choose to go this
route, you will probably find it easier to square currency trades with pre-
existing investment objectives and strategies. Forex will simply become one
part of a diversified investment portfolio. The downside is that the range of
potential investments will be limited to Exchange Traded Funds (ETFs) and
mutual funds. In addition, interest earnings on currency investments will
accrue indirectly through trading gains. Still, for those that only check their
investment accounts once or twice a week, the hassle from having to log in
and make trades through a separate account with a forex broker will
outweigh the modest savings from slightly lower spreads.
Long-term bets are suitable for those investors with generalized theories,
which may or may not be informed by a close examination of economic data.
For example, there are many investors that are concerned that the dollar will
collapse, or at least decline markedly across most currencies. This is based
on the vague notions that the US twin deficits (trade and government
spending) are problematic, that the dollar’s role in central bank reserves is

Forex for Beginners 167
disproportionate with the US share of the global economy, and that the
United States seems to be losing its superior economic position to emerging
market economies. For investors with this concern, it wouldn’t be
unreasonable to make a long-term bet against the US dollar, either by selling
a broad index fund or by selling the dollar against another currency (or
currencies). Beware that the latter will expose you to additional risk. For
example, given the European Union’s ongoing fiscal problems, the dollar
could very well continue to rise against the euro for reasons that have much
to do with the euro and very little to do with the dollar. In fact, if you had
bought the EUR/USD in late 2008, when the markets were beginning to
rebound, you would have earned a return of about 0% as of January 2012. On
the other hand, if you had hedged your bet by selling the dollar against
multiple currencies, you might have achieved an annual return of about 10%.
(See Figure 7-1.)
Figure 7-1. Between 2008 and 2011, the US dollar fell on an overall basis. Against individual
currencies, however, performance varied.
Likewise, there are many investors that seek exposure to emerging market
currencies as an asset class. Given that emerging markets boast the lion’s
share of global GDP growth, strong government finances, and current
account and trade surpluses, this probably isn’t a bad idea. If you think that
there is a strong case to be made for a particular currency, you could buy that
one currency (against the dollar) and wait. If, on the other hand, you think
that emerging market currencies as a whole will rise, you could buy multiple
currency pairs simultaneously. Of course, this latter strategy will lower your
expected return, but it will also lower your risk exposure. Considering how
much performance among emerging market currencies has varied (Figure 7-
2), this probably wouldn’t be a bad idea.

168 Chapter 7 | Trading Strategy
Figure 7-2. Emerging market currency returns (against the US dollar) vary considerably
Timing does not usually play a significant role in long-term currency
investing. If you have a general theory or investment objective, my advice is
to not try and time the market. Over 6–12 months of investing, the idea of
trying to tack an extra 1% on to your overall return through shrewd timing is
a little bit ridiculous. If market conditions are abnormal or illiquid (such as
during the 2008 financial crisis), you might want to adopt a wait-and-see
approach. Otherwise, my experience has been that there’s no time like the
present!
If it turns out that you mistimed your entry and your position is already in the
red shortly after you opened it, you can always scale your position. Also
known as dollar cost averaging, this involves adding to your position in
order to lower your profit threshold. For example, if you had bought $1,000
worth of the EUR/USD at $1.30 and only one week later it had fallen to
$1.25, you could double down on your position with another purchase of
$1,000. This lowers your average buying cost to $1.275. As soon as the
EUR/USD surpasses this level, your position will be back in the black! If not
for this tactic, you would have to wait until the EUR/USD crosses $1.30
before the position would be profitable again. As for exiting a trade, the same
logic applies. If the currency pair has already outperformed your
expectations, you might want to consider taking profits by selling off part of
your position. This way, if your position begins to depreciate, you will have
locked in a portion of the gains and minimized further risk.
You should continue to monitor and re-evaluate your position for as long as
it remains open. Ask yourself, for example, “Have the US twin deficits begun
to decline? Has the EU fiscal crisis been brought closer to resolution? Have

Forex for Beginners 169
emerging market economies slipped into recession?” It’s fair to have a
general belief that a particular currency will rise or fall over the long term,
but sticking to such a belief in the face of presently contradictory factors
takes real persistence, or even foolishness!
Finally, you should have an idea of when you will close your position.
Perhaps it is after a certain amount of time. Perhaps it is only when the
currency pair has crossed a certain threshold. Remember: a bull (or bear)
market that lasts forever is simply not possible in forex. (For the record, even
stock market investors are starting to question this ideal!) In other words,
make sure that your strategy has an endpoint built in.
Purely Technical Strategy
Those with larger profit goals and shorter attention spans will probably
gravitate toward trading strategies that are grounded in technical analysis. In
fact, there is plenty of evidence that the majority of currency traders fall into
this category. For example, most forex brokers don’t offer long-term charts
(with price intervals that exceed one day) and historical price data because
most traders aren’t interested in them. Technical traders typically pay little
attention to fundamental analysis. News developments are not in and of
themselves noteworthy but are only relevant insofar as the volatility they
generate may threaten trading strategies.
There are two time horizons that are suitable for technical trading strategies:
short-term and medium-term. My definition of a short-term duration is
anything less than one day, wherein discrete positions remain open for
minutes or hours. The advantage of closing all positions at the end of each
trading day is that you don’t have to worry about how the market is
performing when you aren’t actively trading. In addition, intraday leverage is
basically free, as interest is usually charged only on overnight positions.
(How interest is charged varies between brokers.) The downsides of having
an intraday time horizon are increased pressure and greater risk. Profits on
individual trades may not exceed a few dozen PIPs, which means that trades
need to be timed perfectly. For better or worse, tremendous leverage
(exceeding 20:1) is also the rule for these kinds of trades, adding to the sense
of pressure.
If you choose to adopt a short-term technical trading strategy (otherwise
known as scalping), you will be limited to a handful of the most liquid

170 Chapter 7 | Trading Strategy
currency pairs during the most liquid hours of the day. Just as profits can be
reaped almost instantaneously, losses can pile up with equal speed. In short,
this kind of trading is basically akin to gambling, which explains why the
majority of day traders wipe out their accounts shortly after opening them. It
goes without saying that I don’t advocate this approach.
Those with more patience (one full day to a few weeks) will find that
technical analysis still has plenty to offer. Less time spent trading means
more time spent on research and analysis, which should translate into a
higher success rate for individual trades. In addition, a longer time horizon
will allow you to target higher profit thresholds (more than 100 PIPs/trade),
which require less leverage (less than 5:1). You won’t need to worry about
planning trades around certain times of the day, as liquidity is less of an
issue. While you will expose yourself to potential losses from overnight
positions, there are certain tools that you can take advantage of in order to
minimize risk. (Such tools include scaling, stop-loss orders, and more. They
are touched on throughout this chapter and covered extensively in Chapter
11.) Those that still aren’t comfortable with this risk can nonetheless choose
to close out some (or all) of their positions at the end of each trading session.
For all technical traders, technical strategy should be rule-based. Here, the
contrast with fundamental strategy is most stark. Fundamental analysis
admittedly has an abstract quality to it, which can be frustrating. For
example, “Given current interest rate levels, the AUD/USD seems
undervalued,” or, “In light of the EU fiscal crisis, the EUR/USD should
continue to decline.” Technical strategy, on the other hand, is concrete. For
example, “I will buy when the CHF/USD exceeds its 50-day moving
average,” or, “I will sell when both the fast and slow oscillators indicate
oversold conditions.” In this way, opening and closing positions takes place
in accordance with a clear plan. That’s not to say that this plan guarantees
success and profits. Instead, the idea is that a scientific approach to analysis
demands an equally scientific approach to trading.
In fact, many trading platforms now support the development of automated
strategies. You can select from a list of pre-defined strategies or manually
create your own strategies. For example, a so-called 5 x 5 system will
generate a buy signal when the close price is above a specified simple
moving average (SMA) and the Relative Strength Index (RSI) is above the
mid-line 50. A sell signal will be generated when the close price is below the
SMA and the RSI is below the mid-line 50. Through the same platform, you
can instantly backtest this strategy for specific time periods and currency

Forex for Beginners 171
pairs. (Backtesting will be covered in detail in Chapter 9.) With any
automated trading system, you must decide whether or not computer-
generated trading signals will trigger automatic trade executions. In other
words, you can choose to receive signals automatically but to manually
execute trades, or, if you have confidence in your system, you can check the
box for automated execution.
There will always be technical traders that bristle at the lack of flexibility
inherent in mechanical trading systems. For these traders, technical
indicators are an important guide for making trades but are no substitute for
experience. These traders might try to adhere to a handful of technical
trading rules. At the same time, they abide by the adage that “rules were
made to be broken.” They may ignore the indicators and enter a trade
prematurely or not at all, wary that a potential breakout may turn into a fake
out. They may take profits early or ride out a trend even when their indicators
show that a pair has reached an overbought or oversold level. They may open
a chart, apply a few technical studies, and simply make an assessment about
what will happen next. Above all else, these technical traders trust their
intuition.
As with most other aspects of strategy, there is no right answer to which
approach is better. My advice is that, when you are just beginning to trade,
you should err on the side of trusting the rules that you have developed.
Without experience, you really don’t have much of an alternative. At this
point, you are more likely to confuse emotion with intuition, which could
lead to expensive mistakes early on. As you hone your strategy and begin to
achieve success, you might relax the reins slightly and allow yourself some
flexibility in the way that you execute your trading system.
But let’s not get ahead of ourselves. Before we can decide how much faith to
put in our trading system, we must first create such a system. There are a few
of ways to go about this. The first involves simply opening up a chart, using
your preferred time horizon as a basis for selecting the time scale—and try to
loosely identify the current pattern that applies to the pair. Is it trending
upward, downward, or sideways? From here, you can layer on your favorite
technical indicators and see if any signals pop out at you. The next step
would be to fine-tune your indicators—perhaps some of the parameters need
to be tweaked—and to analyze how this pair performed the last time that the
indicators flashed in such a way. Based on your level of confidence, you
should determine the position size and the amount of leverage. If you’re not
entirely sure, you might want to leave some of your equity capital on the side

172 Chapter 7 | Trading Strategy
so that you can scale in and/or minimize any potential losses. If you decide to
open a position, you will naturally need to have an exit plan—one that
probably incorporates the same indicators that guided your decision to enter.
By way of example, let’s say that you happen to be looking at the first frame
of the USD/CAD (five-hour interval) chart depicted in Figure 7-3. It looks
like the USD/CAD has been range bound over the last five weeks, with
especially tight consolidation over the last week. However, it just pierced the
upper limit of your chart’s Bollinger Bands (at the last candlestick on the
left-hand panel), which means that a breakout could be taking place!
Furthermore, the commodity channel index (CCI) just crossed above 0 and
has already spiked above 100. Unfortunately, the Moving Average
Convergence Divergence Indicator (MACD) isn’t giving you a very strong
signal. You replace it with another indicator that is just as ambiguous. What
do you do?
You could wait for further confirmation, but given that the pair has already
jumped 100 PIPs and volatility has been running low, it seems likely that any
upward momentum will soon be exhausted. Besides, the pair has bounced off
of resistance at 1.01 a handful of times over the last five weeks, and this time
probably won’t be any different. You buy in for $5,000 at 1.022 using 2:1
leverage, with the intention of holding the position for a week or so. Moving
to the right-hand panel, it looks like you guessed right. The USD/CAD is
now definitively trending upwards.

Forex for Beginners 173
Figure 7-3. Technical strategy based on improvised analysis
You unwind half of your position at 1.034 when the MACD and the CCI dip
below the zero line, just to be on the safe side. The USD/CAD rallies another
100 PIPs, and you feel smart for having held on to your position. Without
warning, however, the currency pair suddenly takes a nosedive below the
lower limit of the Bollinger Bands and the CCI is flashing “SELL, SELL,
SELL.” You oblige and close out the remainder of your position at 1.029.
You earned an average of 95 PIPs on your trade. Thanks to your 2:1
leverage, that’s an annualized return of 58%. Not bad for your first trade!
For those that don’t possess this kind of ability (or the stomach) to improvise
trades, you might want to develop a trading system first and then find
concrete situations to which to apply it. Consider that a technical trading
strategy must seek to profit from one of three basic phenomena: trend
continuation, trend reversal, or breakout (from range bound trading). You
could conceivably have separate systems for each. You might begin by
establishing your time horizon; are you looking to open a position for one
day, one week, or more?
Your technical trading rules can be as creative as you like. The only caveat is
that the more limiting they are, the harder it will be for you to find situations

174 Chapter 7 | Trading Strategy
to apply them. For instance, if your system is based on a moving average
crossover and the MACD, you will probably come across more potential
trades than you can handle. On the other hand, if you insist on building a
system that is based on no fewer than half a dozen indicators, you will spend
most of your time hunting and little time actually shooting.
Let’s take my first suggestion as an example. Based on my hypothetical
experience, let’s pretend that I have developed the following rule: “When the
5-day moving average crosses the 20-day average, it heralds a trend
reversal.” Let’s say that I also rely on the MACD: when the signal line
crosses the moving average line and when the histogram crosses the zero-
line, it is further evidence of a trend reversal. Therefore, I will enter a
position upon the next trend reversal and close it out after the following trend
reversal. This is my hypothetical mechanical trading system.
After looking at a handful of charts, I settle on the EUR/USD (one-day
interval) chart (shown in the left-hand panel of Figure 7-4) because of the
way it seems to exemplify my pre-established rule. Currently, it appears that
the EUR/USD is in the midst of a strong upswing. I have resolved to sell as
soon as my trading system indicates that the uptrend has given way to a fresh
downtrend. A couple of weeks later, two consecutive very bearish
candlesticks appear suddenly, and the MACD signal is first to sound the sell
alarm. One day later, the 5-day MA crosses the 20-day MA, and I open a
short position around 1.38. After 2 months, my hypothetical position is still
open. While the MACD has let out a few burps from time to time, the
moving averages haven’t crossed over a second time, and I am already 1,000
PIPs richer for my efforts!

Forex for Beginners 175
Figure 7-4. Technical strategy based on mechanic trading system
In the world of forex, these kinds of examples abound, especially with the
benefit of hindsight. If I offered any more, though, I would be doing your
homework for you.
Technical & Fundamental
Trend Trading
Medium-term trend trading (also known as swing trading) is the approach to
the forex markets advocated in this book. That being the case, you might be
wondering why it’s buried in the middle of this chapter instead of at the
front. The answer is that trend trading first requires proficiency in both
fundamental and technical analysis, and in both short-term and long-term
trading.
The sweet spot for timing swing trades is somewhere between 3 to 12 weeks.
While this strategy can certainly be adapted to slightly shorter or longer
horizons, my experience suggests that this time frame is where swing trading
is most effective. In the long run, I think that fundamentals play a larger role

176 Chapter 7 | Trading Strategy
in dictating trends and, hence, that fundamental analysis is bound to be
effective. I wouldn’t discourage long-term fundamental traders from
incorporating technical analysis into their strategies, though I would certainly
question the relevance and effectiveness of doing so. When a pair is
following a long-term trend, long-term fundamental analysts usually treat
any deviations from that trend as random or inconsequential. Their goal is to
profit from the overall trend, not from the ebbs and flows along the way.
Short-term technical analysts, in contrast, probably won’t find much use for
fundamental analysis. An exchange rate might adjust over the course of 1–3
days following an important fundamental development, though this
phenomenon is as technical as it is fundamental. The gyrations that take
place around the mean (regardless of whether the pair is trading flat or
trending) are probably less due to constant adjustments in traders’ economic
models than they are to the short-term pull of speculative buyers and sellers
that are doing their best to time the market. Again, I wouldn’t discourage
technical traders from considering fundamental analysis, but I’m not sure
how effective it can be in short-term trading. (The exception is trading the
news, a distinct strategy that I will outline later in this chapter.)
To those of you who are still with me, the benefits of medium-term trend
trading should be easy enough to understand. Fundamental analysis is used to
predict trends, and technical analysis is used to confirm them. (Or, for those
who prefer to think of it the other way around, technical analysis is used to
spot trends, and fundamental analysis is used to understand them.)
Trend trading can take many forms. Those that lean toward fundamental
analysis can begin with the various tools outlined in Chapter 5. Only after
forming a prediction about the medium-term direction of the market will
technical analysis be brought in to help you time your entry and exit.
Technically inclined traders might use technical indicators as a basis for
predicting the beginning and end of medium-term trends before making sure
that their interpretation is consistent with the fundamentals.
I personally am a fundamental analyst at heart. I am a big-picture thinker,
and I thoroughly enjoy attempting to untangle the massive puzzle that is the
global forex market. When planning trades, fundamental analysis always
comes first for me, and technical analysis is more of an afterthought. In other
words, I will wait until I have a fairly good idea of the trade that I want to
make before I will layer technical indicators onto my price chart.

Forex for Beginners 177
Let’s look at a few examples. In the middle of 2010, I remember watching
the EUR/USD chart (depicted in Figure 7-5) and thinking that the euro had
become deeply undervalued. Meanwhile, economic data was improving
across the European Union, and the European Central Bank had begun to hint
that rate hikes would soon follow. To be sure, the euro had initially fallen
because of concerns over the Eurozone’s fiscal problems, but at that point the
true extent of the crisis had not yet been revealed. At the very least, the
euro’s purchasing power parity value was greater than its market value
against the dollar ($1.20–$1.25, depending on when you happened to be
looking at it). Finally, risk appetite was improving (signified by a rising S&P
500 Index), and the US dollar was still in vogue as a funding currency for
carry trades. In short, barring any sudden developments, I concluded that it
was only a matter of time before the euro rallied.
My theory was supported by basic technical analysis. After rallying in the
wake of the credit crisis, the EUR/USD had suddenly fallen 3,000 PIPs in
less than six months. The Commitments of Traders data (shown in the inset
of Figure 7-5) showed that short positions had reached an extreme level. This
development alone would be reason enough to buy the euro, since once an
uptrend started, it would cause a short squeeze, potentially catapulting the
euro upward by hundreds of PIPs in only a few days.

178 Chapter 7 | Trading Strategy
Figure 7-5. Example of trend trading (Source for inset chart: Countingpips.com)
Sure enough, the euro bottomed out in June 2010, and anyone who discerned
the change in trend—indicated by the moving average crossover—would
have cashed in. Over the next twelve months, the euro rallied 2,500 basis
points. From a technical standpoint, it trended very reliably—so much so that
I selected it in Chapter 6 to illustrate Elliott Wave Principle in action. Its rise
presented several solid points (circled in Figure 7-5) to take profits, and for
those that were firmly committed to this trade, it also provided several
additional points to re-enter. Just as bullish sentiment reached an extreme
level in April 2011, a wave of negative fundamentals came cascading down,
and the euro began the downward spiral that continues as I write this
sentence in April 2012.
By way of another example, consider the chart that is shown in Figure 7-6.
The left panel represents the present day. Based on visual analysis, it looks
like the USD/BRL encountered fairly strong resistance, first at 1.88 and then
at 1.885.

Forex for Beginners 179
Figure 7-6. Trend trading using a combination of fundamental and technical analysis
After dropping down just as precipitously as it rose, the USD/BRL is now
clearly riding another uptrend. You theorize that this uptrend will come to an
end when it hits the resistance that you previously identified. From a
fundamental standpoint, there isn’t much to justify your theory. Still, you
know that the current USD uptrend (against all currencies) is a product of
uncertainty and risk aversion rather than the result of any kind of substantive
factors that favor the USD at the expense of the BRL. On a long-term basis,
the real’s sudden decline makes it appear greatly undervalued. Besides,
Brazilian interest rates are higher than US rates, which gives you some
cushion on your bet. (This will be discussed later on in greater detail.)
To execute this strategy, you can rely on a handful of specialized order types
that will be detailed in Chapter 9. For example, you can place a sell limit
order at exactly 1.885, such that a short USD/BRL position will be opened
automatically if/when the pair reaches that critical level. In this way, you
won’t need to stay glued to your computer 24/7 and execute the order
manually. Your plan is to ride the wave downward as long as it lasts, though
you aren’t sure just how long this will be. Here, you can make use of a
trailing stop order, which will automatically close your position if the

180 Chapter 7 | Trading Strategy
USD/BRL retraces more than a given amount. If you were to set the number
of PIPs to 100 and the pair fell to 1.84, your position would be closed
automatically if the pair rose back to 1.85. If it continued falling to 1.80,
however, your stop would be automatically adjusted to 1.81, still 100 PIPs
above the lowest level. In this way, you can keep your position open as long
as possible (maximizing gains) while continuing to protect yourself from any
downside (minimizing losses).
But surely this is a best-case scenario, right? What if the USD/BRL crashes
straight through the 1.885 threshold and keeps rising, such that your recently
opened short position is now accumulating rapid losses? Here, too, you can
protect yourself with a buy stop order above 1.885. If you set the buy
threshold at 1.89, then your position will be closed at this level and your
losses will be limited to 50 PIPs—frustrating, but acceptable. Of course,
there is still the possibility that the USD/BRL will hit this level and then fall,
just as you predicted. Unfortunately, because of your buy stop order, you
have already locked in your losses and probably won’t find solace in
ultimately being right. By setting your stop-loss point slightly higher, you
can give yourself some margin for error. At the same time, you must be
prepared to take on more risk.
Currency Crosses
A currency cross is a pair that doesn’t involve the US dollar. In the early
days of the modern financial era, currency traders (especially those based in
the United States) who wanted to place trades that didn’t involve the dollar
had to perform some minor financial acrobatics. For example, if a trader
wanted to short the Japanese yen against the euro, he would have had to
make two simultaneous trades, shorting the yen against the dollar at the same
time that he bought the euro against the dollar, as follows:
EUR USD EUR
________ + ________ = ________
USD JPY JPY
Closing a position would have similarly involved two trades. Nowadays,
forex brokers offer a handful of the most liquid currency crosses, thus
relieving traders of this headache. Those that want to trade less popular
crosses, however, will have to resort to the method described above.

Forex for Beginners 181
Some traders gravitate to crosses because they are more suited to technical
analysis. For example, it would be very difficult to establish a model for the
Japanese yen against the British pound—even though both are major
currencies—because of the lack of a direct relationship between their
financial economies. Thus, movements in the JPY/GBP are more likely to be
technical than fundamental.
Of course, there are a handful of exceptions, most of which involve the euro.
For instance, the CHF/EUR is arguably as important as the CHF/USD for a
few reasons. First of all, the Swiss franc is easier to compare to the euro
because of regional proximity and economic interdependence. Second, the
Swiss National Bank has been more likely to measure the franc’s
performance against the euro—rather than the dollar—which means that
traders have no choice but to do the same. Recall that the infamous “line in
the sand” that would trigger intervention was €1.50 and not $1.50.
Carry Trade
The carry trade is a trading strategy that seeks to profit from interest rate
differentials. Such differentials are a factor in all overnight forex positions,
and interest is automatically credited or debited to one’s account in the form
of rollover. (This will be discussed more in Chapter 9.) Thus, all traders must
at least be aware of the interest rate differential that corresponds to the
particular currency pairs that they are trading.
Practitioners of the carry trade, however, seek out trades mainly on the basis
of these interest rate differentials. The primary goal is to capture the interest
rate spread rather than to profit from currency appreciation. For example, if
the benchmark interest rate is 1% in Japan and 10% in Brazil, the annual
expected interest earnings from a BRL/JPY position would be 9%. If this
interest rate differential changes—because Brazilian rates rise and/or
Japanese rates fall—interest earnings would change accordingly.
Since the carry trade is supposed to be a low-risk strategy, traders must also
control for risk. Taken at face value, a 9% annual return seems fairly solid.
However, if the standard deviation (also known as variability) of that return
is 20%, then the actual return could very well turn out to be negative. As a
result, currency pairs that are especially stable make the best candidates for
the carry trade. In fact, the carry trade tends to thrive when volatility is low
and to shrink during crises when uncertainty is high.

182 Chapter 7 | Trading Strategy
Figure 7-7 shows a breakdown of the returns earned from August 2007 to
January 2012 from a carry trade strategy against the US dollar. You can see
that in some cases (such as with the Brazilian real and the Australian dollar)
returns from interest were supplemented by currency appreciation. In other
cases (such as with the Mexican peso and the Turkish lira) high returns from
interest were partially or completely offset by currency depreciation. Most
currencies fell somewhere in the middle. Of course, the plot thickens when
you adjust for risk. While returns were high for the Brazilian real and the
Australian dollar, for example, so was volatility.
Figure 7-7. Returns and risk from USD carry trade, August 2007–January 20121
The carry trade also serves as a useful framework for understanding currency
fluctuations as part of a plain vanilla fundamental strategy. For example,
beginning in 2005, traders began to target the yen as a funding currency for
carry trades due to its low interest rates and similarly low volatility. The
massive capital outflows that followed caused the yen to decline more than
20% against the US dollar, bringing the price of the yen to a five-year low.
(See Figure 7-8.) At the peak of this practice, outstanding yen-short carry
trade positions were estimated at nearly $1 trillion!
1 Howard L. Simons, “The Long, Awful Life of the Dollar Carry Trade,” Currency Trader
Magazine, January 2012, 22.

Forex for Beginners 183
In 2007 the credit bubble began to deflate. With the inception of the financial
crisis, risk appetite collapsed, and skyrocketing volatility caused a sudden
unwinding of carry trade positions. A short squeeze ensued, and the yen
finished the year up 25% in its strongest performance ever. As US interest
rates fell to 0%, the dollar replaced the yen as the funding currency of choice
for carry trades. Since then, the yen has risen continuously. Any long-term
trader that discerned this sea change would have profited handsomely.
Figure 7-8. The carry trade dictates long-term movements in the USD/JPY
To deploy a carry trade strategy, you need only to identify a currency pair
with a broad interest rate differential and low volatility, sit back, and start
collecting interest. If volatility rises suddenly and/or the interest rate
differential narrows, you may need to re-evaluate your position. There are a
handful of currency ETFs (such as the iPath Optimized Currency Carry Fund
and PowerShares DB G10 Currency Harvest Fund) that mimic carry trade
strategies, though their performance records are spotty.
Advanced Strategy
There are no firm standards as to what constitutes an advanced strategy.
Suffice it to say that such strategies take a long time to develop and must be
executed meticulously. Still, advanced strategies may represent the most

184 Chapter 7 | Trading Strategy
effective methods for beating the market, and outsized returns should accrue
to those with the most sophisticated strategies.
Most institutional currency traders make use of advanced technical strategies.
They use powerful computers and complex algorithms to sweep through
hundreds of combinations of indicators in search of the strongest signals.
These algorithms are closely guarded secrets and are so valuable that they
have already become the subject of several high-profile lawsuits. Fortunately,
the software that institutional traders use to develop their advanced strategies
has begun to trickle down to the retail level and is available, free of charge,
through many forex brokers, or for a fee from third-party providers. In
Chapter 9, I will offer an introduction to using such programs.
Meanwhile, advanced fundamental strategies can be developed manually or
with the aid of computers. For example, you could use regression analysis (a
tool that is available through Microsoft Excel) to compare currency
fluctuations with economic data. Or you could try to establish a tradable
correlation between a particular currency pair and another asset, such as
treasury bonds or gold prices. My personal favorite advanced strategy is
based on the correlations between currencies.
For example, let’s say that you had been eyeing the AUD/USD in early 2007,
when it was still rising. Worried that the credit bubble that was driving the
gains in the AUD/USD was about to burst, you decided to seek out another
currency pair to hedge your exposure. You pulled up the following table of
correlations and identified the JPY/EUR as the best candidate.
JPY/EU
AUD/USD EUR/USD GBP/USD USD/CAD USD/CHF USD/JPY
R
AUD/USD 100% -50.9% 59% 66.2% 77% -78.8% 26.5%
The two pairs exhibited an inverse (weekly) correlation coefficient of 50.9%,
which meant that an upward move in the AUD/USD had a 50% chance of
driving a corresponding downward move in the JPY/EUR—and vice versa.
In the event that the AUD/USD didn’t perform as expected, then, you would
have been protected by your JPY/EUR position.
After opening two simultaneous long positions, you patted yourself on the
back for the continued rise in the AUD/USD. If only you hadn’t been so
stupid as to buy the JPY/EUR, whose modest decline was eroding your solid
gains. But, wait! The credit crisis struck suddenly, and the AUD/USD
collapsed! Fortunately, the inverse correlation held, and what would have

Forex for Beginners 185
been innumerable losses were offset by strong gains in the JPY/EUR. In fact,
you can see from Figure 7-9 that while the performance of the AUD/USD
and JPY/EUR have varied since 2007, their combined return has always been
positive. Behold, the perfect trade!
Figure 7-9. Cumulative returns from investing in the AUD/USD and JPY/EUR, separately
and together
Trading the News
Trading the news is arguably the most difficult strategy of all. When certain
economic data is released, the news can have a sudden and unpredictable
impact on the forex markets. For this reason, when big news announcements
are brewing, the majority of short-term traders will deliberately close any
positions that could potentially be impacted and/or stay out of the markets
altogether rather than risk having their trading strategies undermined by an
unexpected movement. Long-term fundamental analysts, meanwhile, pay
attention to the content of the news but may wait several days after their
release before acting.
At the same time, there are a handful of traders that thrive on the volatility
that certain news releases engender and deliberately craft strategies that stand
to profit from this phenomenon. Every day, there are literally dozens of
economic indicators that are made public, and the majority of them have zero
impact on the markets. A handful of them, such as employment indicators
(e.g., nonfarm payrolls), interest rate decisions, trade data, inflation indices,

186 Chapter 7 | Trading Strategy
retail sales, and a handful of others, however, can cause significant gyrations
in the markets.
Typically, in the days or hours leading up to an important data release, a
consensus expectation will form, and traders will consolidate their positions
in the relevant currency pair(s). In the minutes before the release, the pair
may break suddenly in a particular direction. When the data is finally
released, investors become frantic. Their aim is to either buy the trend if the
data release has conformed to expectations or to sell before the rest of the
market in the event of a surprise.
Anyone looking at the economic calendar for February 3, 2012, as seen in
Figure 7-10, would have noticed that a handful of employment indicators
were scheduled for release at 1:30 p.m. (GMT). In the half day leading up to
these data releases, the EUR/USD consolidated upward as traders planned for
a continuation of the status quo via the previous month’s figures. In fact, the
actual data beat expectations, and only 30 minutes later the USD had already
rallied by 100 PIPs. Apparently, the sell-off was too steep, and traders spent
the rest of the day building back up long positions.
b

Forex for Beginners 187
Figure 7-10. Charting the impact of the release of employment data on the EUR/USD
Those that sought to profit from this chain of events could have entered the
market on any number of occasions. If you subscribe to the idea, “Buy the
rumor, sell the news,” then you probably would have bought the EUR/USD
(and sold the USD/EUR) in the hours leading up to the news release and then
dumped it (and even opened the opposite position) immediately after the
news announcement. Alternatively, you might not have any opinion on the
data itself and might merely be interested in a volatility play. In this case you
could place simultaneous buy and sell orders slightly above and below the
consolidation channel (indicated by the red horizontal lines in Figure 7-10).
With the use of a One-Cancels-Other trade (which will be explained in
Chapter 9), your trading platform will automatically open a position for you,

188 Chapter 7 | Trading Strategy
depending on the direction of the breakout. If the breakout is to the upside,
then the buy order will be triggered and the sell order will be cancelled, and
vice versa is true for a downside breakout. Of course, if you set your bands
too close together, you run the risk of falling victim to a false breakout, as in
Figure 7-10.
Basic Options Strategies
The main source of appeal for options boils down to leverage. For most
securities, the ability to make long/short bets without having to buy/sell the
security itself is a huge benefit. For example, with $25,000 you could only
afford 40 shares of Google stock, assuming a current share price of $630.
Alternatively, you could buy 2,500 Google call options for $10 each, and
achieve significantly larger gains if the share price increases than if you had
merely bought the stock itself. Given the open availability and low cost of
leverage in the forex market, however, options really aren’t much of a perk.
Any retail trader can buy a $100,000 block of currency with a modest
amount of equity capital. For this reason, options represent only a small part
of forex activity.
At the same time, traders prize options for their flexibility and unique
structure. Hedging, for example, is a risk management strategy designed to
limit losses. In options parlance, hedging usually means taking on a
secondary position to minimize losses from a primary position. For example,
let’s say that you have an open position consisting of 100,000 units of
EUR/USD and the current spot price is 1.30. In order to protect yourself from
a downside move, you could buy put options for an equivalent amount of
currency at a strike price of 1.25, thereby limiting your potential losses to
500 PIPs. You might be wondering why you shouldn’t just input a stop-loss
order instead, which would achieve the same purpose. The answer is that a
put option will not automatically exercise while a stop-loss order will. In
other words, if you take out put options and the EUR/USD falls to 1.24
before rising to 1.40, you will be able to capture all of this upside.
Conversely, you would have irrevocably locked in a 500-PIP loss with an
equivalent stop-loss order. The difference, of course, is that put options cost
money (money that could otherwise have been used for your spot position)
while a stop-loss order is free. In addition, as retail forex brokers do not
typically offer currency options, trading them requires a separate account and
a separate platform. This may prove to be more trouble than it’s worth.

Forex for Beginners 189
Still, options are conducive to a many types of unique forex trading
strategies, many of which are simply impossible to execute in the spot
market. My favorite is the straddle. A long straddle involves the
simultaneous purchase of call and put options, such that profit is earned if the
spot currency price rises or falls significantly. The long straddle is basically a
volatility play that is based on the expectation that the price of a given
currency will fluctuate significantly. Which way it moves is irrelevant—just
as long as it is a big move.
Let’s imagine that you were looking at a real-time chart of the USD/MXN
(as depicted in the first panel of Figure 7-11) and observed that the pair has
been ranging wildly over the last few months. While you know that a slight
correction is already underway, you aren’t sure whether it will continue or
whether it will swing upward suddenly. The only thing you feel relatively
certain of is that it will continue to move in big swings. The pair is currently
trading at 13.70 (indicated by the dotted red line in Figure 7-11), and you
zero in on the 13.60 call and 13.80 put option (whose strike prices are also
indicated in Figure 7-11), both of which are conveniently trading for 0.10
each. In order for you to earn a profit, the price will need to rise or fall by at
least 20 basis points so that you can earn the premiums back. You calculate
that if it breaks above 13.90 or below 13.50 (outside of the gray envelope),
you will be in the black. As can be seen from Figure 7-11, it ultimately does
so on several occasions, providing good opportunities to profitably close out
your options position. With a long straddle, your maximum loss is equal to
the combined premiums that you paid for the two options.
l

190 Chapter 7 | Trading Strategy
Figure 7-11. Hypothetical options long straddle strategy and theoretical P&L chart
A short straddle, meanwhile, is based on the same concept but executed in
reverse. The goal of a short straddle is to profit from a lack of volatility by
simultaneously selling put and call options. For example, let’s say that the
USD/JPY has traded in a very tight (not volatile) range over the last two
months, as indicated in the left panel of Figure 7-12. As long as it remains
range bound, you can lock in profits by selling a 77.10 put option and 77.70
call option. Then, you can sit back and wait. In a nutshell, if the USD/JPY
price is within the gray area when the options contracts expire, then the trade
will be profitable. To close out the position prematurely, you must buy the
options back at market prices. As with a long straddle, potential profits and
losses will vary accordingly. It’s that simple.

Forex for Beginners 191
Figure 7-12. Hypothetical options straddle strategy and theoretical P&L chart
At the same time, there is no free lunch. Currency pairs that are less volatile
will have smaller premiums while currency pairs with greater volatility will
command proportionately higher premiums. You can play around with
different strike prices and expiration dates, and most options trading
platforms can automatically generate potential profit and loss charts so that
you can forecast how the impact on the underlying spot price (which is what
you are ultimately watching) will affect the profitability of your options
positions.
As I indicated in Chapter 2, hedging and straddles represent only the tip of
the iceberg. There are dozens of basic options strategies, hundreds of
combinations of strategies, and an infinite number of actual trades that you
can make. For better or worse, however, options tend to exist in their own
separate world. As a result, in addition to monitoring movements and
volatility levels in the spot market, options traders must also have a nuanced
understanding and specialized knowledge of their own market. In short, those
of you that are interested in trading currency options would benefit from
purchasing a book devoted exclusively to that subject.

192 Chapter 7 | Trading Strategy
Leverage and Position Sizing
The final step of executing any forex strategy involves figuring out how
much to buy or sell. Consider, first of all, that the minimum position size is
$10,000 for a micro lot and $100,000 for a standard lot. As a result, most
traders will have to develop a certain amount of comfort with leverage. At
the same time, leverage is expensive. I’ve already discussed how leverage
can amplify gains and losses, but I also need to emphasize the fact that
leverage magnifies transaction costs. With 20 times the leverage (i.e., $5,000
equity for a $100,000 trade), for instance, a trader can expect to spend 0.2%
to 2% of account equity on a single round-trip trade. That might not sound
like much, but it can quickly add up after a series of losing trades. From
Figure 7-13, it should immediately be clear that trading a currency pair with
100 times the leverage where the spread is 5 PIPs is extraordinarily risky.
While leveraged transaction costs will seem trivial on winning trades, they
magnify the pain of losing trades.
Figure 7-13. Relative transaction costs (as a percentage of account equity) increase in
proportion with leverage
In the end, position sizing is more of an art than a science and depends on
many factors, including risk tolerance, confidence, and strategy. Those that
have a long-term outlook may feel more comfortable risking more of their
account equity on individual trades. On the other hand, holding multiple open
positions at the same time requires smaller positions and/or increased
leverage. Those that like the possibility of scaling into losing trades while
keeping leverage at a reasonable level should plan to open smaller initial

Forex for Beginners 193
positions. Also, it’s better to be safe than sorry. If, after acquiring several
months of experience, you feel confident in your strategy and approach to
trading, you may wish to experiment with greater leverage and larger
position sizes.
Conclusion
As with analysis, strategy can be as simple or as complex as you desire. The
most basic strategy involves the opening of a long position that you
ultimately close (hopefully, not at a loss!) with an offsetting trade. More
sophisticated traders will incorporate scaling and different types of orders
into their trading plans as part of a risk management strategy. They may trade
over multiple time frames or trade many different types of securities together
as part of an integrated cross-market strategy. Whether you decide to move
up the ladder of complexity and sophistication will depend on both how
much success you achieve and the amount of time that you are prepared to
devote to trading forex.

194 Chapter 7 | Trading Strategy

C H A P T E R
8
Opening an
Account
How to Select a Forex Broker, and
Set Up and Fund a Trading
Account
The retail forex industry is still in its infancy, especially relative to stock
broking and banking. These days, who expends that much mental energy
when contemplating opening a new savings account? Most people simply
select the nearest bank with competitive deposit rates. Finding a broker is
similarly an afterthought for many aspiring forex traders. After all, a skilled
investor with a good strategy should be able to profit regardless of which
broker happens to be executing his trades, right?
Nevertheless, selecting a forex broker is a decision that should not be taken
lightly. Consolidation has not yet swept through the forex brokerage
industry, and the sea of brokers is still vast. There is a wide gulf between the
best and the rest.
In this chapter, I will offer a detailed guide for selecting a broker. I’ll present
an overview of the most critical features you should examine before making
your selection, including cost indicators, services, and technological
considerations. Finally, I’ll provide step-by-step instructions for opening and
funding your very own trading account.

198 Chapter 8 | Opening an Account
What Kind of Broker?
Before we get ahead of ourselves, you first need to decide how you will
engage the forex market. Simply, will you trade currencies directly in the
spot market, will you trade derivatives (such as options or futures) or will
you trade indirectly through Exchange Traded Funds (ETFs)?
Online Discount Broker
For those of you that intend to invest in currencies sparingly and over the
long term, as part of a diversified portfolio, it’s probably easier to trade forex
through a generic securities account. If you already have a trading account,
you can begin investing in currencies right now, through ETFs (or even in
actual currencies). You won’t even need to fill out any additional paperwork.
You should be able to access a list of tradable ETFs through your existing
trading platform. Simply select the one that appeals to you and is consistent
with your financial profile, and begin trading!
If this will be your first account, it makes the most sense to choose an online
discount broker. There are perhaps a few dozen such brokerages that allow
you to trade stocks, mutual funds, ETFs, and sometimes even options at very
low commissions. The majority of them are no-frills websites that spend very
little on marketing and suffer from poor brand recognition. However, they
compensate for this in terms of rock-bottom prices and fast execution.
Investors that feel more comfortable with a brand-name brokerage can
choose from Scottrade, TD Ameritrade, E*Trade, Charles Schwab, and
Fidelity Investments.
Personally, I’m partial to Scottrade (my IRA account is held there) because I
like that they have both a strong online presence and a vast network of more
than 500 branches. This means that I can execute trades online, but I can also
have questions resolved in person or over the phone with a broker that I have
personally met. Despite this perk, Scottrade still only charges $7 per trade.
Then there is Fidelity Investments, which offers competitive commissions
and margin rates, as well as access to exclusive research reports, managed
accounts, and other analytical tools. It also gives regular investors access to
more than 17 international markets denominated in 12 different currencies.
(Recall from Chapter 1 that investing in overseas capital markets also offers
indirect exposure to forex.)

Forex for Beginners 199
Charles Schwab, TD Ameritrade, and E*Trade meanwhile have tried to
distinguish themselves through the sheer breadth of securities that they offer.
Having begun as simple equities and mutual fund brokers, all have since
expanded into options, futures, bonds, and even currencies. Their main
selling point, then, is an integrated platform through which to trade a variety
of different instruments.
From the standpoint of aspiring forex traders, TD Ameritrade offers the
broadest array of products. Thanks to its 2009 purchase of thinkorswim, it
now offers accountholders access to 14 forex futures contracts and more than
100 spot pairs, which are made up of 25 different currencies. The downsides
are a lack of liquidity (especially in spot trading), execution delays, and an
unfavorable margin policy.
E*Trade, meanwhile, offers several dozen futures products and
approximately 54 spot forex pairs. Its commissions are competitive, and it
provides discounts and access to advanced software to active trades. It also
has a physical branch network, though as the first major online broker, it is
most famous for its Internet presence.
Through its acquisition of optionsXpress in 2011, Charles Schwab became
the latest to join the fray of one-stop online brokers. While its platform
doesn’t support spot forex trading, it does offer 17 different currency futures
contracts, as well as a handful of currency options products. Unfortunately,
as this book goes to press, optionsXpress remains a separate but affiliated
company, which means that existing Charles Schwab accountholders would
need to open a separate account to take advantage of the broker’s currency
products.
Online Futures Brokers
For those of you who expect to engage forex primarily through futures and
options, there are a large number of online brokers that specialize in
derivatives contracts. Especially for those who already trade futures contracts
(such as commodities or interest rate futures), you are probably aware that
forex futures and options can be traded from the same account. Specialized
futures brokers typically offer the lowest commissions, fastest execution
times, best liquidity, and overall best value for active futures traders.
The CME Group, which is the largest futures exchange, lists more than 120
brokers in its online directory, 15 of which are given the “preferred broker”

200 Chapter 8 | Opening an Account
designation. Not including the handful that I have already profiled above,
perhaps the two most worthy of mention here are Interactive Brokers and
TradeStation.
The breadth of products offered by Interactive Brokers is simply incredible;
from structured products to corporate bonds, and everything in between,
you’ll find the investment vehicle that’s right for you at this brokerage. It is
plugged into every major exchange on the planet, which means that liquidity
is deep for products that aren’t even offered by other brokers. Its
sophisticated trading software will search around for the best deals and slice
orders up in order to optimize execution time and price. Its FXTrader
platform supports trading in 17 different currencies, with liquidity provided
by 13 major banks and spreads as low as 1/2 a PIP. It offers 15 different
types of orders to facilitate advanced trading strategies, and its software
enables analysis and simultaneous trading across multiple asset classes, such
as spot forex and currency futures. The downside is that rock-bottom pricing
is only possible due to a rock-bottom level of service. Only serious, self-
directed traders should apply!
In contrast, what TradeStation lacks in breadth (only 34 currency pairs) and
liquidity (higher spreads than pure forex brokers), it makes up for in service
and technology. Its industry-leading trading software supports backtesting
strategies using an amazing 38 years of data. Meanwhile, its proprietary
Portfolio Maestro software facilitates risk management across the full range
of asset classes. It can graphically display your risk exposure and make
recommendations for optimizing your portfolio allocations and minimizing
your risk. Customer support representatives are available for live, one-on-one
training sessions and account troubleshooting. This obvious effort to enhance
the user experience should help make TradeStation a magnet for beginners
and distinguish it from Interactive Brokers.
Retail Forex Brokers
Those that plan to trade currencies exclusively and somewhat regularly will
probably opt to open an account with a dedicated retail forex broker. This
category includes perhaps 100 brokers worldwide, about a dozen of which
are registered in the United States.
While there is a broad matrix of criteria that you should look at when
selecting a forex broker, there is one overriding factor: broker registration.
You should absolutely choose a broker that is registered with its national

Forex for Beginners 201
government agency/regulator, ideally in the country where you reside.
Consider that prior to the financial crisis, regulatory jurisdiction in forex was
unclear, registration was essentially optional, and meaningful oversight was
nonexistent. The forex spot market was rightfully referred to as “the wild
west” of retail trading.
This changed in 2008, when the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and
Consumer Protection Act finally gave the Commodity Futures Trading
Commission (CFTC) power to regulate spot forex trading. Every retail forex
broker that intended to do business in the United States was required to
register with the National Futures Association (NFA) as either a futures
commission merchant or as an introducing broker. The former are
understood as forex brokers. The latter operate primarily as marketing
agents, referring customers to the brokers and sometimes even taking orders
but never executing trades internally. Table 8-1 shows the registration status
of forex firms that operate legally in the United States.
Table 8-1. NFA registration information for USA forex brokers
rebmeM
AFN
mriF
xeroF
relaeD
XF
relaeD
XF
liateR
rekorB
gnicudortnI
Advanced Markets X X X X
Alpari X X X X
APPL International X X X
ATC Brokers X X X
Back Bay FX X X X
Boston Merchant Financial X X X
Bulldog FX X X X
CMS Forex X X
CitiFX Pro (Citigroup) X
Cobra Trading X X
CompassFX X X X
DormanFX X X
EasyForex X X
EToroUSA X X X
FastBrokersFX X X X
Forex Club X X X X
Forex.com (Gain Capital) X X X X
FX Solutions X X X X
FXCM X X X X
FXDD X X X X
GFT Forex X X X X
GloCap Markets X X X

202 Chapter 8 | Opening an Account
rebmeM
AFN
mriF
xeroF
relaeD
XF
relaeD
XF
liateR
rekorB
gnicudortnI
IG Markets X X X
IKON FX X
Interactive Brokers X X
Interbank FX X X X X
MB Trading X X X X
OANDA X X X X
PFG Best X X X
Rosenthal Collins Group X
Traders Choice FX X X X
TradeStation Forex X X X X
WSD Financial X
Zecco X X X
The NFA quickly moved to bring all forex firms under its umbrella. Those
that resisted were prosecuted and/or forbidden from operating in the United
States. Those that accepted discovered that their decade-long party had
ended. Strict capital requirements, margin rules, and various other
regulations were quickly implemented. The NFA began to apply close
scrutiny to all registered forex firms, and huge fines were meted out to rule
violators.
Aspiring traders in the United States are strongly advised to open an account
with a registered forex firm. (The only exception is CitiFX Pro, which is
regulated by the SEC via its parent company, Citigroup.) You can verify the
registration of any firm using the NFA’s Background Affiliation Status
Information Center (BASIC) online directory, which can be accessed at
http://www.nfa.futures.org/basicnet/. Conveniently, it also includes brokers
that are unregistered (denoted by “NO CURRENT STATUS”), leaving zero
margin for uncertainty. This system also provides information on
“enforcement actions” for all firms, as well as on corresponding fines and
punishments.
If you choose an unregistered broker, you will also have to forgo the peace of
mind that comes with knowing that both your equity capital is safe and
always withdrawable, and that your broker is subject to government
monitoring. Of course, there are dozens of brokers that are registered with
Britain’s Financial Services Authority (FSA) and other national financial

Forex for Beginners 203
regulatory agencies, all of which are suitable for traders in those countries.
However, while agencies like the FSA in many ways perform the same
function as the CFTC, the fact that your broker has decided not to register
with the NFA is perhaps an indication that it cannot meet stringent US
regulatory requirements. At the same time, it is inevitable that London, being
a global financial capital and the epicenter of forex, would be home to
reputable brokers. If you must open an account with such a broker, then so be
it. All else being equal, though, I would recommend choosing a firm that is
registered in your country of residence.
There are also dozens of firms with prolific advertisements and legitimate-
looking websites that are registered in offshore tax havens (like Bermuda or
Cypress), which is to say that that they are completely unregulated. While the
allure of higher leverage (their main selling point) might seem attractive,
consider that in the event of dispute or fraud, you will have no recourse
whatsoever.
Fees/Commissions
The single most important criterion in broker selection for most aspiring
traders is cost. Remember that the majority of forex brokers earn money by
pocketing the difference (known as the spread) between buy and sell orders.
It stands to reason, then, that brokers that are able to offer the narrowest
spreads represent the best deal for traders.
Alas, spreads may vary across different currency pairs and over time. One
broker might offer the lowest EUR/USD spread and the highest USD/JPY
spread for reasons that are unclear. In addition, some brokers do away with
spreads in favor of a commission-based model (e.g., a standard $4 per 10,000
trade), which can make apple-to-apple broker comparisons very difficult.
Finally, there is the difficulty of securing reliable data. While brokers will
boast about their low spreads in their promotional materials, they
simultaneously warn in the fine print that these sample spreads may not be
accurate!
The best way to get an idea of potential spreads is by opening a demo
account (or two or three), which should be supplied with the same live quotes
that actual accountholders have access to. Alternatively, FXIntel.com offers
real-time data on spreads (measured in PIPs) for all of the major brokers and
currency pairs. Users can check a box to include commissions and can view
real-time spread comparisons for specific currencies, as in Figure 8-1.

204 Chapter 8 | Opening an Account
(Please note that this screenshot is for illustrative purposes only and should
not be considered current.)
Figure 8-1. Live, streaming forex spread matrix (Source: FXIntel.com)
When researching different brokers, you should also look into any fees. If
you are trading regularly and don’t require any special assistance, such fees
probably won’t affect you. Still, some brokers charge inactivity fees, wire
fees, telephone execution fees (for orders that need to be executed manually
during server crashes), currency conversion fees, etc., all of which you
should be aware of before you open an account.
Broker Type
There is an important distinguishing characteristic among brokers that many
traders (and brokers) like to draw attention to: execution system.
Specifically, brokers use different systems for sourcing quotes and filling
orders, and every broker insists that its model is absolutely the best one.
Some brokers use dealing desks, in which orders are manually filled. Dealing
desk brokers may take opposing positions from their clients rather than
matching up the buy and sell orders from other traders. Spreads are typically
fixed, and discrepancies may appear between broker quotes and the interbank
market. Other brokers rely on straight-through processing (STP) systems, in
which orders are executed through third-party liquidity providers. Finally,
brokers that are plugged into Electronic Communication Networks (ECN)
facilitate direct trading between their accountholders and third-party traders
and banks.
All of the systems have arguable strengths and weaknesses. In theory, the
dealing desk model could create conflicts of interest, since a broker’s gain
might be furthered by clients’ losses. The ECN model, meanwhile, should
most closely resemble the interbank market, though by its very nature it
requires a commission-based fee structure.

Forex for Beginners 205
Unfortunately, there have been a number of recent scandals and lawsuits in
which firms were accused of misrepresenting claims about the transparency
of their execution systems. Suffice it to say that each model is only as good
as the moral standing of the broker.
This truth is confirmed by client profitability data. Every forex broker is
required by the NFA to release the percentage of its accounts that are
profitable in any given quarter. All else being equal, traders should achieve
comparable profitability, irrespective of the broker.
Unfortunately, this is not the case. By comparing the data, it is possible to
determine whether one execution model is indeed superior. You can see from
Figure 8-2 that OANDA—which uses an ECN system—was the industry
leader in every quarter in 2011. Meanwhile, Forex Capital Markets (FXCM),
which claims that its non-dealing desk model is one of its strongest selling
points, is near the bottom of the pack. While both FXDD and FX Club use
dealing desks to execute trades, client profitability is significantly stronger
for the former. In short, there is not a compelling case for choosing one
broker over another on the basis of execution system. The size of the broker,
the fairness of its trading platform, and the strength of its liquidity
relationships will more significantly affect profitability for traders.

206 Chapter 8 | Opening an Account
Figure 8-2. Percent of forex broker accounts that were profitable in any given quarter (Source:
NFA)
Margin Policy
In order to be successful in swing trading, you must develop some comfort
with leverage. A loan from your broker will enable you to open larger
positions than you would otherwise be able to afford. In return, your broker
expects you to post collateral, which is known as margin and expressed as
the inverse percentage of the maximum amount that your broker will lend
you. In the United States, leverage is now capped at 50:1 (2% margin) for
major currencies and 20:1 (5% margin) for exotic currencies. (Non-US
brokers may still offer leverage of 100:1 or greater.)
In Chapter 9, I will offer a detailed overview of the mechanics of margin, but
for now, I just want to offer a gentle reminder that you should investigate
your broker’s margin policy in advance. Find out: How does the broker
calculate interest? Is interest charged on intraday positions or only on
overnight positions? Can traders earn interest—where the differential
between the long and short currency is positive—or is interest always debited
from accounts, regardless of the differential? When will a margin call be
triggered? Will the broker close positions without first notifying you and
giving you the opportunity to add funds to your account? You may also want
to compare margin/rollover rates among brokers, as there may be substantial
disparities.

Forex for Beginners 207
Service, Software & Everything Else
Here is where your broker really has a chance to impress you. The best
brokers should also have the best service. Online chat and help lines that are
open 24/7 are practically de rigueur in retail forex. Brokers that don’t offer
such a perk may need to work harder in other areas to distinguish themselves.
You shouldn’t hesitate to make use of this feature, especially when you are
still in the process of selecting a broker. Do the customer service
representatives seem helpful? Knowledgeable?
How many currency pairs do you expect your broker to offer? If you intend
to trade exotics, are the spreads reasonable? Does your broker maintain
requirements for minimum account balances? How many years of operating
history does it have? How many accountholders? How much volume does it
transact every month? Does it guarantee stop orders?
Lastly, you should examine and test out every broker’s analysis and trading
software. Due to unbelievable technological advancements and computing
power, there is very little need for noninstitutional traders to pay extra for
trading programs. While every broker will offer a solid baseline software
package, their platforms may differ substantially in quality and usability.
You should undertake to answer the following questions: Does the broker
have a proprietary platform or does it use the same generic program as its
competitors? Does the platform integrate with other software? Is the platform
user-friendly yet sophisticated? Are profits and losses calculated in real-
time? Is mobile trading supported? Does it provide free access to proprietary
research and trading ideas? Are there streaming business news fees? Are
better perks offered free of charge to premium accountholders?
Finally, what is the broker’s reputation among other traders? You should
browse the dozens of forums and broker review websites and try to
understand the experiences and level of satisfaction of other users. (See
Appendix for more information.) If many traders seem to share a similar
gripe—such as slow execution and price slippage—it should serve as a
warning sign that a particular broker should be avoided.
Broker Overviews
In the pages that follow, you will find separate overviews of a handful of the
most popular forex brokers. I have mainly limited inclusion to those that are
registered with the NFA and operate in the United States, but I also featured

208 Chapter 8 | Opening an Account
one UK broker for the sake of comparison. While this list is not exhaustive, it
nonetheless includes most of the major players in retail forex. Those that
didn’t make the cut are too small, disreputable, unregistered, or generally not
recommendable.
OANDA FX
OANDA is the consistent leader in client profitability rankings and is in the
best position to argue that it strives to help its clients become winning
traders. Due to the backing of a diversified forex parent company, OANDA
FX is able to offer deep liquidity and automated execution. Settlement is
instantaneous (rather than after two days), and interest is credited and debited
every second, rather than once a day. Of course, the downside of this is that
some margin traders will pay interest on intraday positions, which is not the
case with other brokers.
Most importantly, OANDA deserves an A+ in transparency for providing
information on open orders so that traders have context for entering orders
and understanding the prices at which their orders are filled. All traders
receive the same spreads and execution priority, regardless of account size.
OANDA also offers real-time macro-level data on which trades have been
most and least profitable and on whether other OANDA traders are net-long
or net-short in specific currency pairs. You can see how spreads have
fluctuated over time and plan accordingly.
OANDA offers nearly 60 currency pairs (including a handful of precious
metals), the latest software, and several advanced analytical tools. It’s no
wonder that it also leads the industry in the number of accountholders.
FXCM
In 2010, Forex Capital Markets (FXCM) became the first forex broker to
become a publicly listed company, bringing prestige and respectability to the
industry. Unfortunately, it was also around this time that its regulatory
troubles began. It was fined $2 million by the NFA in August 2011 due to
price slippage. Basically, when prices moved against traders with open
orders, their orders were executed at the lower price. When prices moved in
traders’ favor, however, FXCM also filled the orders at the lower price. This
practice cost traders millions of dollars and generated significant profits for
FXCM. In October 2011, FXCM was fined an additional $6 million and

Forex for Beginners 209
ordered to pay out $8 million in restitution to affected customers. Monitoring
of its execution system was ordered for 3 years. Since its IPO, it has also
been the subject of numerous class action lawsuits, alleging unfair trade
practices. All of this is extremely unfortunate, as FXCM goes to great lengths
to emphasize the advantages of its non-dealing desk execution system and
has made this system a cornerstone of its marketing efforts.
To be fair, FXCM has received numerous awards for service and technology.
Its TradeStation platform is cutting-edge and industry-leading, and features
advanced charting, automated execution of trading strategies, and complete
customization. Its affiliated DailyFX site is bookmarked and pored over by
serious traders. It offers fractional PIP pricing (1/100,000th of one unit!) and
transparent rollover rates. In short, while its regulatory history should not be
overlooked, it deserves credit for its serious efforts toward reform.
GFT Forex
GFT, in contrast, has never been the subject of regulatory action, a point that
is highlighted on the company’s homepage. GFT also boasts about automated
order execution and minimal negative price slippage, and its client
profitability numbers are impressive. It offers more than 120 currency pairs
and attractive spreads for all of the majors (and even a handful of exotics). In
addition to its proprietary DealBook 360 software—which includes more
than 85 technical indicators—it offers the gold standard MetaTrader 4
program, and both are free of charge. GFT has also made a commendable
effort to attach itself to some of the most famous names in forex analysis,
including Boris Schlossberg and Kathy Lien. Their daily commentary
(available on FX360.com) and free research reports are a must-read for those
looking for inspiration.
GFT offers four different types of accounts, and it awards certain perks to
those that maintain higher balances. Platinum accountholders with more than
$250,000 in equity capital receive four streaming news feeds, waived fees,
more favorable rollover rates, and free use (for six months) of GFT’s
proprietary technical analysis software. Its powerful Foresight-A.I. is an
algorithmic trading tool designed to time entry and exit points, while its
prized DiNapoli D-Levels are customized technical indicators used by
professionals. In short, GFT is a solid choice, especially for those that are
well-capitalized.

210 Chapter 8 | Opening an Account
Forex.com (Gain Capital)
Forex.com is another publicly listed forex company that has been targeted by
regulators. In 2010, it was fined $459,000 by the NFA for abusive margin,
liquidation, and price slippage practices, and was ordered to pay restitution to
traders that were adversely affected.
On the other hand, it has a strong global presence, deep pockets, and
impressive liquidity. The average trade is executed in 0.06 seconds and
99.4% of trades are executed in less than one second. All quotes are live and
ready for automatic execution, rather than requiring confirmation from a
third-party liquidity provider. Its instant execution mode ensures that market
orders are executed favorably. Given that Forex.com’s internal quote system
is almost perfectly symmetrical with the interbank market, it should come as
no surprise that 100% of limit orders are filled at or better than the prices
requested by its customers.
Forex.com offers attractive spreads for 50 currency pairs through both web
and mobile trading. Its proprietary platform, FOREX Trader Pro, supports
automated strategies and customization of its features. For traditionalists,
MetaTrader 4 and eSignal are both offered free of charge. Forex.com
improves on the customer service of its competitors by offering free online
consultations with market strategists who gauge your experience and critique
your approach to fundamental and technical analysis/strategy. Thanks to this
emphasis on service, Forex.com remains a popular choice for new traders.
Saxo Bank
Saxo Bank is not unlike Interactive Brokers. Both offer a broad suite of
investment products that go well beyond forex, including stocks, bonds,
futures, and contracts for difference (which are similar to futures, but
prohibited in the United States). It offers an incredible 160 currency pairs and
even 40 currency options of both the plain vanilla and binary versions. It is
also the only major broker that I know of that offers trading in outright forex
forwards. Its software is award-winning, its service is top-notch, and its
reputation is stellar. It supports leverage of up to 200:1 and is especially good
at accommodating high-volume traders with large account balances.
While Platinum accountholders will rejoice in tighter spreads and lower
commissions, the average trader will probably find fault with Saxo Bank’s
standard spreads, which are well above average. Saxo Bank also charges
s

Forex for Beginners 211
commissions on all orders below $100,000. As if this weren’t enough, its
platform suffers from serious price slippage, which affects about 10% of all
stop orders. Finally, the fact that Saxo Bank is not registered in the United
States may be a deal-killer for American traders. Thus, while its one-click,
integrated trading platform is a great sell, traders with multi-asset strategies
might be better off opening an account with Interactive Brokers.
CitiFX Pro
After the sudden exit of Deutsche Bank FX from the forex brokerage
business, Citigroup became the last major bank with a retail forex trading
arm. CitiFX is unique among forex brokers in that it is regulated by the SEC,
not the NFA. While it generally adheres to NFA forex regulations on
leverage and other aspects, it unfortunately does not have to release
information on the number of trading accounts it holds and client
profitability. At the same time, there are tangible advantages to dealing with
a bank. You can expect spreads to be quite narrow, since Citigroup
participates directly in the interbank market. It offers strong liquidity in more
than 130 currency pairs. The financial crisis notwithstanding, Citigroup has a
massive balance sheet, which affords peace of mind to those concerned about
credit risk. It also maintains a large research department.
All accountholders receive free access to four trading platforms and to
autochartist software, which can be used for trend confirmation. (More on
this in Chapter 9.) Elite traders may qualify for a free Reuters workstation, as
well as discounts on commissions. In short, for traders that are still
concerned about broker ethics, CitiFX Pro is a good choice.
Interbank FX
What Interbank FX lacks for in brand recognition, it makes up for in value.
Its spreads are average, but it has consistently scored well in the client
profitability rankings, due perhaps to its multi-bank liquidity system for trade
executions. It also scores well in transparency and publishes live data on
spreads, execution time, and execution rates, even when this data is
unfavorable. It was the first broker to unveil MetaTrader 5, and its innovative
IBFXConnect system facilitates social trading. In this way, participants can
share trading ideas and mimic the strategies of others. There is also a ranking
system so that you can see how your performance this week or this month
stacks up against other traders. Overall, Interbank FX is a good option for

212 Chapter 8 | Opening an Account
those that enjoy the social aspect of trading and are generally looking for
something different in their broker.
ATC Brokers
ATC Brokers is registered with the NFA as an introducing broker, and all of
its orders are executed through FXCM. Fortunately, ATC Brokers has been
spared the enforcement issues that have dogged FXCM. Instead, its model is
commission-based, and it assesses a standard $4 commission on every lot for
every currency pair. ATC Brokers also supports forex futures trading
(through separate accounts for regulatory purposes). Ultimately, ATC
Brokers’ most notable feature is its miniscule spreads, which are among the
lowest in the industry and often fall below 1 PIP. Unfortunately, its NFA-
registration status as an introducing broker does not require it to publish
client profitability data, so we have no way of knowing whether ATC
Brokers accountholders benefit from this.
Opening an Account
In addition to choosing a broker, you will also need to select an account type.
First of all, do you want to open an individual account, a corporate account,
or an IRA, which may be subject to different tax treatment from the IRS?
Some brokers offer both standard accounts and mini/micro accounts. The
advantages of using a micro account are that there is neither a minimum
balance requirement nor a minimum allowable trade size. The downside of
opening a micro account is that the temptation to use enormous leverage to
enhance profits will be difficult to suppress. You must either get very
comfortable with leverage or expect to make only a few hundred dollars per
year in profit.
You will find that other brokers also classify account types based on account
balance, trading frequency, and types of securities that can be traded. Some
brokers will allow you to trade several different assets using one account and
one platform, while others require segregated accounts. All brokers will try
to entice you to commit to a more ambitious account type, using lower
spreads and other perks to draw you in. My advice is to not let these
marketing tools sway your decision. Trust your intuition, and don’t be forced
into the position of overextending yourself.

Forex for Beginners 213
The next step is to electronically fill out the documentation that is required to
open the account. Most brokers will ask you for a combination of personal,
financial, and employment information. You may also need to prepare
documentation that can confirm your address, such as a recent utility bill, as
well as to upload scans of government-issued identification. Finally, you will
be expected to agree to a litany of terms and conditions. If you haven’t
already perused your broker’s margin policy and other terms of business, this
would be a good time to do so.
The final act is to fund your account, which can be done using a debit card,
credit card, or wire transfer. On the one hand, I would recommend only
funding your account with money that you could afford to lose. At the same
time, initially depositing more funds will save you the trouble and personal
anguish of having to top up your balance (which may be required by your
broker) in the event that you sustain heavy losses. In addition, the more that
you invest, the less you will have to rely on leverage. Trading data
corroborates the idea that accounts with higher balances are more likely to be
profitable than those with low balances. Whether this is due to skill, leverage,
or other factors is unclear, but the fact remains.
Conclusion
If you followed all of the steps outlined in this chapter, you will have a
funded account and already be in the position to make trades. This is it, the
moment that you have been waiting for—the chance to test out everything
that you have learned. The only problem is that you still don’t know how to
read a quote, or even place an order!
That’s why I recommend that before you open an actual account, you first
open a demo/practice account (and finish reading this book, to boot). Every
reputable broker will offer you this service completely free of charge. You
can initially use these demo accounts as a tool for evaluating different
brokers, kind of like test-driving a car. How are the spreads? Execution? Is
the software powerful and easy to use? Many brokers offer multiple
platforms (usually the most up-to-date version of MetaTrader, as well as a
proprietary program). At the very least, you will need to try out these
different platforms in order to determine the one that suits you best and
through which you will ultimately place orders and interface with the forex
market.

214 Chapter 8 | Opening an Account
Even after you have selected a broker and a platform, you should continue to
trade with the demo account, not only to develop a familiarity with the
mechanics of placing trades, but also in order to hone your strategies,
backtest them, and determine whether they are profitable in real-time. Let’s
now take a closer look at this process.

C H A P T E R
9
Account
Management
Learn the Mechanics of Trading
and
the Art of Backtesting
When you open your trading platform for the first time, you will immediately
be confronted with a dazzling array of windows, indicators, and data—as in
Figure 9-1—and you will instantly realize that despite your vast, newfound
knowledge of technical analysis and trading strategy, you haven’t the faintest
idea of how to actually place an order.
In Chapter 9, you can expect to achieve proficiency in managing both your
overall account and your active positions. You will learn how to read forex
quotes, place various kinds of orders, execute complex strategies, and
minimize risk. You will develop a firm grasp of margin (also known as
leverage), including how it is calculated, how interest is credited and debited,
and how margin can lead to the liquidation of your account if used
improperly. You will acquire more forex lingo than you ever wanted or even
need. Finally, you will learn how to perform instant backtests on strategies
that you have developed. In short, you will be able to put your forex skills
into practice.

214 Chapter 9 | Account Management
Figure 9-1. Screenshot of sample trading platform (Source: OANDA fxTrade)
Reading a Quote
One of the most basic skills in forex is the ability to read a quote correctly.
Unfortunately, it will take some practice before you can expect to
instantaneously absorb the information contained in forex quotes, for the
very reason that they contain two assets (currencies), while quotes for stocks
and bonds involve only one asset. Every exchange rate quote contains the
same basic elements. The base currency is printed first, and the quote
currency is shown second. In a nutshell, a forex quote tells you how many
units of the quote currency are required to purchase one unit of the base
currency.
Quotes for all financial instruments are organized in the form of a bid/ask
spread. Buyers of the currency pair must pay the ask price, while sellers will
pay the bid price. In practice, the bid/ask represents the rate that your order
would be filled at if you entered it right now. In the quoting convention used
in forex, the first two decimal points are shown in small font, while the
number of PIPs appears in large font. In the EUR/USD quote depicted in
Figure 9-2, a trader would expect to pay 1.33365/unit to open a long position
and receive 1.33353/unit to close the position. Opening a short position
would net the seller 1.33353/unit and closing that position would cost
1.33365/unit. Another way to think about this is that it currently costs

Forex for Beginners 215
1.33365 dollars to purchase one euro, while a sale of one euro would net
1.33353 dollars.
The difference between the two quoted prices is known as the spread, which
represents the profit earned by the market maker and/or your broker. In the
case of forex, the bid/ask spread is equivalent to the unit transaction cost for
a round-trip trade, as long as there are no commissions that need to be taken
into account. If not for the spread, you would be able to buy and sell for the
same price, and the broker would have to find a different way to profit from
the service of matching up buyers and sellers. In this case, the spread is only
1.2 PIPs (or 0.00012 units). Thus, opening and closing (whether long or
short) a EUR/USD position would entail a round-trip cost of 1.2 PIPs per
unit. If the position size were 100,000 units, this would equate to a total
transaction cost of $12.
Figure 9-2. Anatomy of a forex quote
Leverage & Margin
If leverage refers to your broker’s willingness to lend you money to fund
trades that exceed the balance of your account, then margin refers to the
collateral that your broker requires you to post in return. Failure to maintain
adequate collateral has serious consequences, as we shall see.
Due to recently revised National Futures Association (NFA) rules, leverage
is now capped at 50:1 for major currencies and 20:1 for so-called exotic
currencies. In exchange for this leverage, you must maintain at least 2%
(100/50) of your account balance as collateral for major trades and 5%
(100/20) equity collateral for exotic trades. Of course, these leverage ratios
are only the sanctioned maximums, and actual ratios may very well be lower.

216 Chapter 9 | Account Management
Table 9-1 shows Forex Capital Markets’ (FXCM) required margin ratios for
a handful of selected currency pairs and their implied leverage ratios.
Table 9-1. Selected margin rates and implied leverage ratios (Source: FXCM)
USD/JPY AUD/USD CHF/JPY EUR/USD GBP/USD USD/MXN EUR/CZK
Margin
2.0% 2.4% 2.6% 3.0% 3.6% 5.0% 7.5%
Rate
Implied
Leverage 50x 42x 38x 33x 28x 20x 13x
Ratio
With forex, it is always assumed that you are trading on margin; you don’t
need to request a loan or even indicate your interest in margin. Based on the
stated margin rates, your trading platform will automatically compute both
your margin used and available margin in real-time. As a result, you will
always know exactly how much of your equity capital is locked up as
collateral, as well as the amount you have available to trade.
I’ll offer a concrete example later, but first I want to introduce you to a few
more terms. Basically, you can think of your account vis-à-vis a few vital
statistics, all of which are accessible in real-time through your trading
platform. Your account balance represents all of the money that you ever put
into your account plus realized gains and losses from trading (from positions
that have already been closed out) plus credits and debits from interest. The
net asset value of your account, meanwhile, is equal to your account balance
plus unrealized gains and losses (from positions that remain open). Finally,
your position value represents the real-time value of all of your open
positions. From these numbers, your platform can automatically determine
how much available margin you can afford to take on, as well as the change
in position value that would cause your equity to fall below margin
requirements.
Figure 9-3 contains a position summary and an account summary from my
OANDA demo account. I have two open positions and both of them are long.
Based on the number of units and the current price of my open positions, it’s
possible to calculate my separate and total exposure, which is dropped
directly into the position value cell in the Account Summary box as
$1,708,105. Based on the average execution prices, it is also possible to
calculate my separate and total profit, which shows up in the Unrealized
P&L (profit and loss) cell as $3,749.17. If I were to close both positions, my

Forex for Beginners 217
unrealized profit would become a realized profit of $3,749.16 and would
further be reflected in a higher Realized P&L value in my Account Summary.
Figure 9-3. Sample position summary and account summary (Source: OANDA)
My net asset value ($103,646.03) is equal to my unrealized P&L ($3,749.16)
plus the account balance ($99,896.86), the latter of which is itself equal to
my initial fund deposit ($100,000) plus my realized P&L (-$99.83) plus
interest. (Total current interest is about -$5, which I deduced by subtracting
the other known components from my net asset value.) If I closed all of my
open positions and closed my account tomorrow, I would receive a check
from OANDA in the amount of $103,646.03; this is how much my account is
currently worth.
Here’s where it starts to get tricky. Based on OANDA’s required margin
rates, the platform has automatically calculated my margin used ($85,405),
which in this case equals 5% of my total position value. If you subtract the
margin used from my net asset value, you get my available margin, which is
$18,240.78. In other words, I have $85,000 locked up as collateral for my
open positions and only $18,000 left in collateral to open new positions. Of

218 Chapter 9 | Account Management
course, this collateral can also be leveraged, such that my platform will
automatically limit any new orders to about $250,000.
You may have noticed one more important number: $42,702, which is
labeled margin closeout. This is equal to margin used divided by 2 and
represents the net asset value that would trigger a margin closeout. In other
words, if my position value drops by about $60,000, then my collateral
would no longer be acceptable to cover my open positions. While all brokers’
margin policies differ from one another, the result in this case would
typically be a liquidation of all of my positions, an extraordinarily serious
action. Because I am so heavily leveraged, a mere drop of 3.5% in the value
of my positions would trigger such a margin closeout and leave me with an
account balance that was depleted by 60%!
Even before the margin closeout, the decline in my net asset value would
have triggered a so-called margin call, which is a warning that I no longer
meet even basic margin requirements. It conveys that unless I deposit more
funds or sell some of my open positions, a margin closeout will be
unavoidable. Even if my net asset value remains above the margin closeout
level, most brokers will still order liquidation after 5 to 7 consecutive margin
calls, which are typically issued daily. In Chapter 10, I will come back to this
topic, but for now, let this serve as a reminder of the pitfalls of leverage!
Rollover
Recall from our earlier discussions about the carry trade that every currency
has an associated interest rate. When the base currency in a pair has a higher
interest rate than the quote currency, then the interest rate differential is said
to be positive, and a long position should accrue interest to the investor. With
a short position, in this case, the trader would pay interest.
In practice, forex brokers manage this interest in the form of rollover.
Basically, anyone that has a currency pair with a positive interest rate
differential will receive a rollover credit, while a short interest rate
differential would imply a rollover debit. Wider interest rate differentials
imply proportionally greater rollover. These credits and debits take place
automatically and will be immediately reflected in your account balance.
Some brokers (such as OANDA) calculate rollover every second, while
others assess it only once per day at a fixed time.

Forex for Beginners 219
Most forex brokers maintain an accessible list of rollover rates, which are
based on the short-term interest rates that they have negotiated with the
banks that hold their currency on your behalf. Some brokers will quote
rollover rates on specific currency pairs, while others will quote them on
individual currencies and leave the math to you. In any event, rates
differ—sometimes substantially—between brokers for reasons that are
unclear. The rollover rates for long and short positions are usually inverted,
but they are not symmetrical. In other words, while you can assume that
positive rollover for a long position would imply negative rollover for a short
position, the two rates will almost certainly differ.
Figure 9-4 shows the rollover rates that FXDD accountholders can expect to
pay/earn for a handful of currency pairs. Rates are quoted on a long and short
basis and are expressed in terms of the number of units assessed daily per
$100,000 lot. For example, a long position in the AUD/CAD would result in
a daily credit of $7.84 for every $100,000 lot. When you multiply 7.84 by the
number of days per year (365), the product, 2.9%, represents the annualized
interest rate differential that you will earn on an AUD/CAD long position.
On the other hand, a long position in the EUR/TRY would punish the
position-holder with a daily debit of $58 for every $100,000 lot, which
corresponds to an annualized rate of -21%. As a result, if you hold this
position for a year, you can expect to incur interest charges totaling a
whopping $21,000! Now you can understand why the carry trade is such a
compelling force in the currency markets!
Figure 9-4. Rollover rates for selected currency pairs (Source: FXDD)

220 Chapter 9 | Account Management
Even if you don’t use rollover rates as a basis for strategy, you must at the
very least make sure that you are aware of them. A daily debit of only a few
dollars might not justify a reaction. For a position that remains open for
many months, however, it can severely impact profitability, for better or for
worse.
Order Entry
Now that you understand margin and rollover, the next step is learning how
to properly key in an order. At this point, it should not come as a surprise to
you that there is more work involved here than simply clicking the “buy”
button. You can see from Figure 9-5 (from the Forex.com platform) that
entering in any order has several parameters.
Figure 9-5. Order entry screen (Source: Forex.com)
First of all, you must select the currency pair that you wish to trade in the
Product field. Here, I have selected the EUR/USD. Check the Associated
Order box if the order will impact an existing position. (Many platforms will
make the connection automatically.) Indicate whether you are inputting a buy
or a sell order, as well as the number of lots. (This platform assumes units of
10,000, as shown in the Quantity field.)
Next, you must indicate the order type from the dropdown menu. If you
select Market Order, then the order will be executed (instantly) at the current
bid/ask rates for sell/buy orders, respectively. If you enter a Single order
(often referred to as a limit order in equities lingo), you can dictate the price
that you would like to receive, in terms of the Order Rate itself or the
number of PIPs that it differs from the current price. In this case, I have
entered a rate of 1.34332, which is approximately 30 PIPs below the current
market rate, which you can deduce as 1.34032 (1.34332–0.0030).
Henceforth, your order will be executed only if the price declines by 30 PIPs.

Forex for Beginners 221
You must also enter an expiration date (one hour, one day, and so forth) or
indicate that the order is Good Till Cancelled (GTC).
You’re probably wondering, “Why wouldn’t everyone insist on more
favorable rates—rather than accept the current bid/ask rates—when keying in
orders?” The answer is that the further your rate is from the bid/ask, the less
likely it is to be executed. In the previous example, it could take an hour for
the EUR/USD price to drop 30 PIPs, if it drops at all! For some people, this
is perfectly acceptable, while for others, the possibility of losing out on a
good trade to save a couple PIPs might seem foolhardy. You could also enter
in a price that falls between the bid/ask spread and hope for execution. For
example, if the current spread is 1.3303 and 1.3307, you could try entering in
1.3306 and see if the order gets filled.
Bear in mind that some brokers will only show you the amalgamation of all
of their open orders, while others will show you their entire order book. For
example, imagine that your broker's order system contains all of the open
orders in the order book as seen in Figure 9-6.
Figure 9-6. An order book is either consolidated into a bid/ask quote or displayed as is.
The majority of forex brokers will amalgamate this information into a simple
bid/ask spread (like the one in Figure 9-6) that contains only the highest bid
and the lowest ask. In the interest in transparency, however, there are some
brokers that are generous enough to show you their entire order book. In this
case, if you want to buy more than 11 lots or sell more than 16 lots, part of
your order would be filled at the less favorable rate. For example, if you

222 Chapter 9 | Account Management
entered a market order to buy 15 lots, 11 would be filled at 1.3308 and the 4
remaining units would be filled at 1.3309. However, if you instead used a
single order and stipulated a price of 1.3308, you would ensure that all 15
lots of your order are filled at 1.3308 or better (or not at all).
Once you have determined whether you’d prefer a market order or a single
order, simply click the Submit Order button, and your order will move into
your Open Orders folder. As soon as it is executed (instantaneously, in most
cases), your order will show up in your Activities Log and in your Open
Positions folder. Most trading platforms also support one-click order entry.
By simply clicking on a quote or a price point in an open chart, you can
immediately open a long/short position, saving yourself the few seconds that
it takes to manually key in the order. In some cases, believe it or not, this
could make a difference!

Forex for Beginners 223
Figure 9-7. This order entry system enables simultaneous buy/sell orders and stops (Source:
OANDA)
Of course, you may have noticed that there are a handful of other types of
orders. Buy and sell stops are probably the most basic. Recall from the
discussion of strategy in Chapter 7 that stops are used to lock in profits and
limit losses. Some traders (especially those that plan to monitor their
accounts in real-time) may enter stops in separately, on an as-needed basis.
Others may enter them in as soon as they open their positions. Some order

224 Chapter 9 | Account Management
entry systems, like the one shown in Figure 9-7, were specifically designed
to facilitate this latter tactic.
In fact, this particular platform is incredibly well designed, since you don’t
need to manually calculate stop rates. Simply enter in the number of PIPs at
which you would like to Take Profit and/or the number of PIPs that you will
Stop Loss. You can even specify a Trailing Stop. Based on my indications in
Figure 9-7, the system will automatically close out my long EUR/USD
position if the rate rises by 50 PIPs or falls by 20 PIPs. In addition, as long as
the EUR/USD rate rises, my trailing stop will automatically adjust to 30 PIPs
below the most recent high, superseding my original stop order. For example,
if the price rises by 50 PIPs, from 1.3469 to 1.3519, the system will
automatically adjust my stop to 1.3499. If the price rises further, my trailing
stop will adjust proportionately. If the price falls from this level and breaches
1.3499, my trailing stop will likewise execute automatically.
There are a handful of other order types (some of which can be seen in the
drop-down menu in the order entry screen depicted in Figure 9-5), and some
of which are only available through certain brokers or advanced platforms. A
One-Cancels-Other order is exactly as it sounds: two orders are entered
simultaneously, and if one is executed, then the other is automatically
cancelled. For example, let’s say that you have a theory that the EUR/USD is
due for a breakout, but you’re not sure of the direction. You could indicate a
One-Cancels-Other order that either executes a buy if the EUR/USD rate
increases 30 PIPs or executes a sell if it falls 30 PIPs, whatever happens first.
An If-Then order, meanwhile, involves the entry of two simultaneous orders,
but the second order will only go into effect if the first order is executed.
This can be seen in Figure 9-8. I have entered an If-Then order for the
EUR/USD that will execute a buy only if the price first falls by 30 PIPs and
secondarily if the price falls by an additional 30 PIPs from that level. This
latter stop order will protect me from incurring big losses if the EUR/USD
slides below the level that I have anticipated.

Forex for Beginners 225
Figure 9-8. An example of an If-Then order (Source: FXCM)
Autocharting
In order to become a successful trader, you may also want to take advantage
of some of the other tools on your trading platform. The autochartist feature,
for example, is adept at picking up on technical patterns in charts, as seen in
Figure 9-9.
Figure 9-9. Autochartist tool (Source: FXCM)
You can see how my trading platform has identified dozens of such patterns
and catalogued their respective directions, time intervals, and quality, among
other aspects. In the EUR/CZK chart that is displayed on the right-hand side

226 Chapter 9 | Account Management
of Figure 9-9, you can see that the autochartist tool has identified a possible
Ascending Triangle. It is evidently of good quality and clarity, and the
autochartist suggests that the pair is due for an upswing.
Backtesting
Perhaps the most innovative tool available for your use is the automated
backtester. In an earlier era, technical analysts had to manually apply their
theories to historic price data in order to determine their validity. Even well
into the 2000s, computerized backtesting was slow, complex, and only
available to institutional investors with deep pockets and powerful
computers. Nowadays, you can simply pull up the backtesting tool and either
open a pre-defined strategy or develop your own customized strategy. Next,
key in your preferred currency pair, time interval, start date, and end date.
Click on the Backtest button, and voilà! Data is immediately forthcoming! In
Figure 9-10, you can see the results of a six-month backtest I performed on
the EUR/CHF.
The purpose of my backtest was to determine whether an exponential moving
average (EMA) crossover strategy would have been profitable for this pair at
a daily interval over the designated time period. You can see from the many
buy and sell arrows in the chart that each time the EMA crossed over the
moving average, the computer initiated a hypothetical buy or sell order. After
tallying the results of all of these trades, the program determined that this
trade was net profitable. (Total profits exceeded total losses, and percent
profit was positive.)
For those that are quantitatively inclined, the backtest also computes a
handful of performance metrics. The average monthly return for each of your
trades can be generated as well as the standard deviation (also known as
volatility) of this return. The program can also calculate about a dozen ratios,
which are designed to assess whether the strategy performed well from a
risk-adjusted standpoint. In other words, if the total return from the strategy
was large (but the variability of that return was also high), then the strategy
isn’t all that robust. For example, if my strategy generated an annualized
return of 25% (not bad!) but the return fluctuated wildly between -25% and
75%, then the risk-adjusted return is actually quite low. The risk-to-reward
ratio is the most basic of these ratios and simply compares gains to losses.
The Sharpe ratio compares the total return to volatility, while the Sortino
ratio compares the total return to the volatility in downside movements. (The

Forex for Beginners 227
logic behind this last ratio is that a currency pair shouldn’t be punished for
upside volatility.) As can be seen in Figure 9-10, my strategy produced an
overall profit but negative risk-to-reward ratios and Sharpe ratios. In short, I
should probably tinker with this strategy so that it maintains a similar level of
profit but at a lower risk.
Figure 9-10. Backtesting window within trading platform (Source: FXCM)
I cannot stress the usefulness of the backtest tool enough. As you can see, it’s
both complex and intricate and may take many practice attempts before a
backtest can be performed quickly and comprehensibly. Still, if you take the
time to become fluent in both the process and the concepts that I introduced
above, you will find the backtest to be an invaluable aid in developing
trading strategies. Think about it. Why would you want to speculate about
whether a strategy seems viable when you can definitively establish whether
or not it is, as well as the extent to which it actually was profitable? Take the
time to work through the software and test out customized strategies over
different intervals of time. You may be surprised to see how results differ
when you tweak the parameters of your strategy only slightly.

228 Chapter 9 | Account Management
Finally, if you feel confident in your strategy, you can consider automating it
so that your trading platform automatically executes buy and sell orders on
your behalf each time the conditions of the strategy present themselves. Of
course, there are certain downsides to using such an approach, as we’ll
discuss in Chapter 10.
Conclusion
You should now have a working knowledge base for using your trading
platform, managing your account, placing orders, and fine-tuning your
trading strategies. Unfortunately, this is only the starting point, and practice
makes perfect. Familiarize yourself with all of the tools that your platform
makes available. Customize the layout in a way that is most useful to you. In
order to avoid sensory overload, deselect all of the unnecessary windows and
indicators. Create customized chart templates and indicators, and practice
using the autocharting software. Develop a handful of different strategies and
backtest them. Begin to monitor economic indicators and other fundamentals
that will play a role in your trading strategies.
Before trading with real money, you should spend weeks (or even months)
with a demo account. In this way, you can practice keying in orders and get a
feel for order execution. Try to maintain discipline, even though there aren’t
real consequences for failed trades. Eventually, you may get to the point
where you feel comfortable using the trading platform and your trades are
generating net profits. Then—and only then—should you consider
transitioning to a real account.

C H A P T E R
10
Pitfalls
and Risks
Understanding the Risks of Forex
and the Mistakes that New Traders
Make
While I’ve tried to offer a balanced portrayal of forex, I think it’s natural that
readers and aspiring traders will still have a rosy view of it. After all,
investors have been known to have tremendous overconfidence in their own
abilities, even in the face of contrary results. By definition, you wouldn’t
start trading currencies unless you believed—or even expected—that you
could earn a profit doing so, right?
Both because forex is a zero-sum game and because currency markets are
more opaque than other securities markets, you should be aware of the risks.
In this chapter, then, I’ll offer an overview of what can go wrong. As a forex
trader, it’s important to understand that you will be vulnerable to forces both
within and outside of your control.
I’ll also introduce some of the mistakes that new traders make, due both to
lack of experience and overconfidence. I’ll explain further how you can
avoid these pitfalls and the steps that you can take to minimize risk. Simply,
those that aspire to succeed must internalize the old adage, “Hope for the best
and prepare for the worst.”

230 Chapter 10 | Pitfalls and Risks
Currency Risk
The most obvious risk in any investing or speculative activity is that the
market will move against you, causing the value of your position to decline.
Quite simply, if you have a long position in the AUD/USD, the most basic
risk that you face is that the Australian dollar will decline relative to the US
dollar, immediately causing you paper losses and ultimately resulting in
actual losses. In forex, this risk is especially acute because the currency
market represents a zero-sum game. By definition, when one trader wins, one
or more other traders must lose. In short, as a forex investor, you must accept
the fact that you will lose money on some of your trades.
In fact, currency risk will always be present in any international investment.
When you own—or are exposed to price changes in—an asset or security
that is denominated in a foreign currency, you take on currency risk. For
example, if you are an American and you buy shares in Sony, you are
exposing yourself to Japanese yen risk. While Sony could boost its
profitability, causing its stock prices to rise in Japan, this would be a moot
development if the yen simultaneously depreciates. Figure 10-1 shows how
(net positive) currency fluctuations have contributed to asset price returns
over the last 12 years.
Figure 10-1. Breakdown of international returns between currency fluctuations and
movements in the underlying asset price (Source: Fidelity Investments).

Forex for Beginners 231
There are several things that you can do to limit your exposure to currency
risk. First of all, you should prepare yourself for the possibility that you will
lose all of the funds that you apply to currency investing. Accordingly, you
should only invest money that, if lost, would not materially impact your
standard of living or financial situation.
While no one in his or her right mind would plow ahead and invest in forex
with the expectation of losing, it is a possibility that nonetheless must be
accepted. As far as new traders are concerned, currency trading is not for the
unemployed or the cash-strapped. Losing sucks, period. What would be
worse than merely losing, however, is losing cash that you borrowed from
your brother or that you cannot afford to part with.
Second, reduce your leverage to the smallest amount possible. When it
comes to allowable leverage, currencies (and futures) are the exception in
finance—not the norm. Leverage of 50:1 is not recommended, let alone
leverage of 200:1. Simply, when you increase your leverage, you increase
your risk. Smaller ripples in the underlying currencies will cause massive
waves in your account balance, hopefully for the better, but potentially also
for the worse. If you find that striving to meet your trading goals necessitates
the use of excessive leverage (which I define as greater than 10:1), you
should scale back your expectations, adjust your trading strategy, or wait
until you have more risk capital before joining the currency trading fray.
Regardless of how much leverage you employ, you need to have a hedging
strategy. For the majority of traders, this is as simple as a fixed 1% stop-loss
order on all trades. Other traders may experiment with using options
contracts to hedge risk, especially on long-term positions. Regardless, you
need to have some method to limit potential losses. If you trade with little or
no leverage and have a long-term outlook, you may not be bothered by a 5%
paper loss in your position in the first month. On the other hand, if you are
swing trading with 5:1 leverage, a 5% decline in the underlying currency pair
would be unimaginable. By getting in the habit of using stops, you can nip
any losses in the bud before they wreak havoc on your account balance.
As part of your hedging strategy, you might also consider scaling out of
losing trades and scaling into positions that are in the black, perhaps with the
use of leverage. Used properly, this strategy is a win-win. If your (winning or
losing) position declines, you will have effectively decreased your losses. If
it recovers or continues rising, your position will similarly increase in value.

232 Chapter 10 | Pitfalls and Risks
Most importantly, you should always be aware of your potential exposure. If
your position moved against you suddenly, what would be the impact? Is
your position leveraged? Are you hedged? Can you afford this loss? These
are questions that you should be able to answer at all times. A simple way to
gauge your exposure is to look at the recent volatility of your currency pair(s)
for the applicable time interval. Pay particular attention to volatility spikes
that coincided with news releases.
In Figure 10-2, you can see that weekly volatility for the USD/CAD has
averaged about 100 PIPs (1%) for more than one year and never exceeded
135 PIPs. Volatility peaked at this level toward the end of 2011 and is
currently in a state of protracted decline. If you were to invest in the
USD/CAD with an intended hold period of 3 weeks, your approximate risk
exposure would be about 200 PIPs. While you can’t rule out the possibility
of large, long-tail moves (so-called due to their presence at the far ends of
any probability distribution curve), you can nonetheless develop an idea of
how much you could possibly lose if your position moves against you, and
plan accordingly.
Figure 10-2. USD/CAD volatility chart can be used to gauge risk exposure. (Source:
Forexticket.co.uk)
Volatility
In addition to being a useful tool for understanding risk, volatility can also be
a risk in and of itself. As I have explained on several occasions already,
volatility may spike around certain planned news releases. If you think that a
big move is likely and you can’t afford the loss that the news might trigger,
close your position or scale back your leverage. Even if you aren’t
deliberately trading the news, you should always be aware of its potential
impact on your portfolio.

Forex for Beginners 233
Volatility is also a risk insofar as it can trigger the premature execution of
stop orders. Remember that the main purpose of stops is to protect against
excessive losses. However, it’s possible that sudden volatility could cause the
currency pair to dip below your stop level due to otherwise unremarkable
fluctuations. For example, setting up a stop-loss 100 PIPs (about 1%) below
your entry price might seem like solid hedging. As you can see from Figure
10-2, however, a fluctuation in the USD/CAD of 100 PIPs would hardly be
considered exceptional, and placing a stop-loss at this level could
automatically lead to your position being closed before the pair has a chance
to rebound. The lesson here is simply to be aware of the impact of volatility
on your strategy and aim to strike a balance between aggressiveness and
conservativeness when configuring stop levels.
Poor Strategy
The fact that forex is a zero-sum game is clearly a liability, but from another
perspective, this reality can also be viewed as a plus. Simply, there is always
the possibility of generating profits, regardless of the current market
environment. The failure to do so may imply faults in your trading strategy.
After excessive leverage (a pitfall that will be reiterated in Chapter 11), the
biggest strategic mistake committed by novice traders is overtrading. In fact,
overtrading can bring to mind any number of related mistakes. Scalping,
opening and closing positions too quickly without adequate thought and
preparation, immediately comes to mind. Another example is trading too
many positions at the same time. Regardless, quantity is not a substitute for
quality. Increasing the size, frequency, and diversity of your trades is a recipe
for disaster, not profits. In addition, while trading different currency pairs
simultaneously as part of a broad-based strategy can reflect savvyness, it also
exudes foolishness. When you first begin trading, stick to a handful of
currency pairs and try to hold each position for a sustained period of time. If
you find that you are able to manage multiple positions without becoming
schizophrenic, then you can allow yourself greater latitude. Finally, there is
no rule that says you need to be in the market at all times. If the market is
gyrating wildly or your strategy is not producing any clear signals, consider
staying on the sidelines and playing the waiting game.
The next strategic pitfall that stymies many beginner traders involves an
overreliance on someone else’s strategy. Especially when you are first
starting out, you may be enticed by advertisements that promote managed

234 Chapter 10 | Pitfalls and Risks
accounts, signal services, and robots, because of the fantastic profits that they
promote. In my opinion, you should view such promises skeptically; if it
seems too good to be true, it probably is. Ask yourself: Why would someone
with a profitable trading system sell it to the public when he could just as
easily keep it—and the chestful of profits that it purportedly generates—to
himself? In short, blindly using systems that trade for you or merely provide
trading ideas are not recommended. If you want to be a successful trader, you
need to educate yourself and practice. If you aren’t confident enough or
comfortable with the risks to trade on your own, buy a managed or passive
ETF or mutual fund. It’s that simple.
The same goes for the thousands of technical reports and free signals that are
published by most forex portals and forex brokers on an intraday basis. For
novice traders, there is a real danger of information overload. These reports
may contain a few nuggets of wisdom but probably also contain a handful of
haphazard stabs and filler. Treat these ideas as you would any other source of
information, as mere factors in your overall trading strategy. Before trading
on the tips of others—regardless of their credentials—scrutinize them closely
and backtest whenever possible.
As Albert Einstein once said, “the important thing is not to stop questioning.”
While this advice probably wasn’t in reference to forex strategy, the fact
remains that a diligent, probing trader is a good trader. Market conditions are
always changing, and so should your strategy continue to evolve. I
mentioned earlier that I have interviewed many professional traders that
recorded their most profitable trades during the credit crisis, a period when
the markets went haywire and all previous trading wisdom was thrown out
the window. Forget trading signals and robots. Ask them what their secret
was, and they will tell you that the years they spent educating themselves and
trading beforehand enabled them to accurately and confidently assess the
prevailing conditions—whatever they may be—and to trade accordingly.
Forex Addiction
Many of the pitfalls that I discussed above are merely a manifestation of an
underlying disorder: forex addiction. I’m not using this term tongue-in-
cheek. Trading forex (or any other security, for that matter) has many
properties that make it addictive: immersive environment, fast pace, large
amounts of money on the line, and so forth. For those that are looking for an
escape from the daily rigors of life, stimulation in an otherwise dull routine,

Forex for Beginners 235
or a vehicle for diverting compulsive gambling tendencies, forex offers an
easy outlet. It’s available 24 hours a day from the privacy and convenience of
your home. Best of all, it’s completely legal.
Sadly, if and when you reach the point of actual addiction, it will already be
too late. You will have ceased being accountable, even to yourself. You will
trade compulsively and randomly, over very short time periods. You will
trade with ever increasing amounts of money (and leverage), even as your
account balance dwindles. You will become irrationally hopeful that a big
win is just around the corner and fail to heed the warning signs and learning
opportunities that come with losing trades. You probably won’t quit until
your account balance falls below the sanctioned minimum or you have
mentally hit rock bottom, or both.
There are a handful of steps that you can take to avoid becoming addicted to
forex. First of all, limit the amount of time that you spend trading forex or
even thinking about forex. Make an effort to trade over longer time frames
and, in turn, make fewer overall trades. Don’t trade in thin markets, and don’t
feel compelled to have an open position(s) at all times. Spend more time
doing research and planning strategy than executing trades. Try to set
reasonable trading goals and quash any hopes of windfall profits and
fabulous wealth. Approach forex from the standpoint that it is a
business—not a game.
If you can’t sleep at night because you are mulling your losses, if you feel
compelled to monitor all of your open positions in real-time, if you find that
your trading habits are becoming less disciplined and more idealistic, you
should take some time off. In the end, if you ever reach the point where you
depend on forex for your emotional well-being, you need to walk away
and/or seek professional help.
Broker/Credit Risk
The next category of risk that I want to elucidate is not as easy to hedge:
broker risk. Bank accountholders have the FDIC. Equity traders are
guaranteed recourse by the Securities Investor Protection Corporation (SIPC)
and the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). If HSBC or E*Trade
went bankrupt tomorrow, the US government would by and large protect
your money and investments.

236 Chapter 10 | Pitfalls and Risks
Unfortunately, the same cannot be said for forex, which lacks a centralized
marketplace and a clearinghouse (for retail trades). You must simply put
your trust in the integrity of your broker and hope that the execution prices
that you receive are fair and in line with actual market movements.
Since the financial crisis, the NFA has made great strides in regulating the
forex industry. All brokers are held to strict standards and must meet specific
registered capital thresholds. Complainants are finding that restitution is
forthcoming in cases of clear malpractice. Still, the fact that such malpractice
remains rampant speaks volumes about the state of the industry. Lawsuits
have alleged flagrant improprieties that strike at the very core of the way in
which forex brokers operate. Spreads are still somewhat arbitrary, and
execution is far from transparent, even among the most reputable brokers.
Liquidity may dry up during news releases, and slippage (in which orders are
filled at prices worse than indicated quotes) is common, even among
reputable brokers. If your broker declares bankruptcy, you will simply have
to get in line with everyone else as an unsecured creditor and pray for the
return of the funds in your account. It doesn’t exactly inspire confidence that,
in their risk disclaimers, most brokers won’t even vouch for the information
on their own websites and that they disavow all responsibility for the
repercussions of any inaccuracies.
Among unregistered and offshore brokers, the situation is almost certainly
worse. They probably engage in front-running (by trading their own accounts
in advance of your orders) and may even manipulate trading, targeting your
stop levels in order to lock in your losses. Given the abundance of Ponzi
schemes and other scams that have been uncovered in the financial industry
since 2008, it wouldn’t surprise me if certain unregistered brokers were also
bucket shops, pretending to execute orders without actually doing so. With
these brokers, you will find that it is easy to deposit funds but nearly
impossible to withdraw them.
At least there are now established channels for seeking redress in cases of
broker malfeasance. If you encounter any questionable activity, the first step
is to contact your broker. If that fails, you should file a formal complaint with
the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC). The NFA also has an
arbitration program, which has been known to mete out reparations to
wronged accountholders. Even the court system has become amenable to
accountholder rights, as evidenced by several class action lawsuits against
brokers in recent years.

Forex for Beginners 237
Ultimately, the best way to protect oneself is to open an account with a
registered broker. Beyond that, just try to be vigilant. I know it’s asking a lot
to suggest that in addition to monitoring the markets and plotting strategy,
you should also monitor your broker. If you have the opportunity, check
FXintel.com from time to time to make sure that your broker’s spreads are
consistent with its competitors. If you suspect impropriety, check out some
forex forums (see Appendix) in order to ascertain whether other traders have
similar suspicions. If you are at all uncertain, don’t hesitate to contact your
broker and even the CFTC or NFA if necessary. You’d be surprised that they
care about your opinion.
Online Trading Risk
The final few risks to trading forex are more mundane but no less serious.
First, there is online trading risk. The advantage of trading through an online
platform is convenience. The disadvantage is that when your platform
becomes unavailable, you will be vulnerable to losses. In the event of a
power outage, Internet disruption, or server error, you will be unable to open
new positions or close existing positions electronically. While this sounds
far-fetched, most brokers acknowledge that their platforms crash from time
to time. Mobile trading platforms take convenience to the next level but may
still have some bugs and lack the same array of features offered by your
desktop platform.
As part of your framework for risk management, you should plan for this
possibility. If you have stops in place, you may be unaffected. Either way,
you should make sure that you have your broker’s phone number handy so
that you can make orders by telephone if need be. Make sure that your
Internet connection is stable, and use a surge protector to protect your
computer from electrical disruptions.
Interest Rate/Rollover Risk
Interest rates can strongly affect the profitability of your account. Most
currency pairs are characterized by interest rate differentials, which generate
rollover debits and credits for the position holder. Sometimes these
differentials are quite small (less than 1%), which may be the case when a
pair contains two major currencies. However, differentials can also be quite
large, which is common in pairs that involve emerging currencies. In these

238 Chapter 10 | Pitfalls and Risks
cases, rollover may exceed 5% on an annualized basis. If you factor in
hypothetical leverage of 5:1, this would be equivalent to $2,500 per year on a
$10,000 account. Such a windfall would be cause for celebration, as long as
you’ve opened a long position in the currency with the higher interest rate. If
such a large amount of rollover were being subtracted from your account
balance, however, you probably wouldn’t be so happy.
The best way to protect yourself against costly rollover debits is to monitor
them constantly and make sure that you are aware of any interest rate
changes. If you have a long position in a currency pair for which the
differential is negative (or a short position on a pair with a positive
differential), you should make sure you understand the resulting impact on
your account balance. In this case, you will lose money every day that the
pair doesn’t appreciate. On the flipside, you should understand that there is
no free lunch in rollover. The theory of interest rate parity suggests that a
positive interest rate differential (i.e., rollover credit) should eventually be
accompanied by currency depreciation.
Country/Political Risk
The final risk in forex is that the country that prints each currency ultimately
gets to decide how that currency can be exchanged. Governments can and do
manipulate the money supply and impose rules that may be unfavorable to
currency investors. They may engage in policies that spur inflation and
impose capital controls that tax all short-term (currency) speculation. Central
banks may intervene in forex markets without warning, causing exchange
rates to jump by hundreds of PIPs or more. In some cases, there are
difficulties in selling the currency (such as the Chinese yuan), while for other
currencies there are doubts as to whether they will even continue to exist
(namely the euro).
As a retail trader, there really isn’t much that you can do to guard against the
possibility that a currency will structurally depreciate or even disappear.
Instead, pay close attention to political developments and relevant news
releases so that you can anticipate potential changes before they happen. You
may want to (temporarily) avoid dealing with currencies for which there is a
large degree of uncertainty.

Forex for Beginners 239
Conclusion
As should now be clear, the risks in forex are real and numerous. The
currencies themselves carry risk. Your broker carries risk. The central bank
and monetary authority that issued the currency is a risk. In the end,
however, all of these risks can be alleviated. Ironically, the one liability that
is most difficult for you to hedge against is yourself. In Chapter 11, the final
stop on this educational journey, I will look at this risk in more detail and
offer some guidance on how to maximize your chances of success and avoid
becoming just another sad forex statistic.

240 Chapter 10 | Pitfalls and Risks

C H A P T E R
11
Successful
Investing
Practical Measures and Intangible
Skills That Distinguish Good
Investors from Bad Traders
It is an incontrovertible fact of forex that the majority of traders lose.
Anecdotal evidence suggests that most traders fail fast and fail big, emptying
their accounts just as quickly as they opened them and moving on to other
pursuits. While this reality is certainly lamentable, it suggests that a select
group of traders must be achieving some degree of consistent success.
In the previous chapter, I offered an overview of the risks that are unique to
currency markets, as well as the accompanying pitfalls that ensnare traders.
In this final section, these pitfalls will be turned on their heads and seen from
the collective standpoint of those that manage to avoid them—and earn
consistent profits doing so.
I will close this saga with a discussion of investor psychology—not the kind
that moves the markets, but the kind that will ultimately impact whether you
win or lose in forex. In the end, it isn’t luck that will see you through your
first day, your first month, and your first year of trading, but discipline and
even a little bit of virtue.

244 Chapter 11 | Successful Investing
A Final Note on Leverage
I have already gone to great pains to convey the dangers of over-leveraging
your trading account. Spend a few minutes browsing forex chat rooms, and
you will be inundated with horror stories involving too much leverage. Do
not kid yourself into thinking that you will be exceptional. Hedge funds and
banks, with deep pockets and access to inside information, failed en masse
during the credit crisis due in no small part to about 35:1 leverage. Simply, if
you trade with excessive leverage, you will almost certainly come to regret it.
Part of the blame rests with the regulatory authorities and the brokers
themselves for even tempting traders with miniscule margin requirements.
Even at 50:1 (reduced from 200:1), maximum leverage levels are still
inappropriately high. This point is underscored by Table 11-1, which shows
how equity capital declines exponentially with leverage as a result of
consecutive losing trades. Based on these parameters, after eight consecutive
losing trades, your account balance will have slipped by a modest 2%. With
50:1 leverage, however, your account balance would have fallen to 67% of
its original level after only three losing trades. And this assumes that you had
enough sense to cut your losses after a mere decline of 25 PIPs (an
equivalent decline of only 0.25% on a major currency pair)!
Table 11-1. After consecutive 25 PIP losses (on positions involving major currency pairs),
equity capital declines in proportion to leverage.
Leverage
1:1 5:1 10:1 20:1 30:1 40:1 50:1 60:1 70:1 80:1 90:1 100:1
1 99.75 98.75 97.50 95.00 92.50 90.00 87.50 85.00 82.50 80.00 77.50 75.00
2 99.50 97.50 95.00 90.25 85.50 81.00 76.50 72.25 68.00 64.00 60.00 56.25
3 99.25 96.25 92.75 85.75 79.25 73.00 67.00 61.50 56.25 51.25 46.50 42.25
4 99.00 95.00 90.25 81.50 73.25 65.50 58.50 52.25 46.25 41.00 36.00 31.75
5 98.75 94.00 88.00 77.50 67.75 59.00 51.25 44.25 38.25 32.75 28.00 23.75
6 98.50 92.75 86.00 73.50 62.75 53.25 45.00 37.75 31.50 26.25 21.75 17.75
7 98.25 91.50 83.75 69.75 58.00 47.75 39.25 32.00 26.00 21.00 16.75 13.25
sessoL
evitucesnoC
8 98.00 90.50 81.75 66.25 53.50 43.00 34.25 27.25 21.50 16.75 13.00 10.00
Remaining
Capital
(%)
As I explained in Chapter 8, there are certainly advantages to trading with
more equity capital. Namely, you won’t need as much leverage, which means
that you can actually do a better job at controlling risk. However, forex is

Forex for Beginners 245
ultimately a high-risk activity, and you should only invest money that you
can afford to lose. Rather than risk unaffordable losses, you would be wise to
trade a mini or micro account (which require less leverage) until you have a
substantial amount of money saved up and can meet the equity capital
requirements to open a standard account. Remember that minimum balance
and margin requirements are marketing tools that are used by brokers to
generate more business from hacks that really have no business trading forex.
If you only have $50 (the minimum required by some brokers) set aside to
trade forex, do yourself a favor and simply wait.
To drive this point home, let’s look at three hypothetical traders with varying
amounts of trading capital, per Table 11-2. With only $50, Trader A is
limited to a micro account. With $4,000, Trader B opts for a standard
account. With $5,000, Trader C can afford a standard account, but he opts for
the mini account instead. All three traders are new to forex and decide to err
on the side of caution when placing their first order.
Table 11-2. Three hypothetical traders experience varying losses on the same position, as the
result of having selected different account types.
Trader A Trader B Trader C
Trading Capital $50 $4,000 $5,000
Account Type Micro Standard Mini
Minimum Transaction Value $1,000 $100,000 $10,000
Leverage 20:1 25:1 2:1
100-PIP Loss on Position ($10) ($1,000) ($100)
% Loss of Trading Capital 20.0% 25.0% 2.0%
% of Trading Capital
80.0% 75.0% 98.0%
Remaining
Having opened the same long EUR/USD position, all three traders suffer
losses when the pair declines by 100 PIPs. Despite employing the minimum
amount of leverage required by their account balances, both Trader A and
Trader B experience devastating losses. As a result, they will have to take on
even larger leverage on future trades, and they may never even reach the
breakeven level. Trader C, meanwhile, experienced only modest losses, in
relative terms, and will live to trade again.

246 Chapter 11 | Successful Investing
Demo Account
All forex traders (especially those with short time frames) should spend
weeks or months honing their skills and fine-tuning their trading plans with a
demo account. You can test out different strategies and see what works and
what doesn’t. You can experiment with automated trading strategies risk-
free. You can implement different kinds of risk-management systems and
gauge their effectiveness.
You should set goals for your demo account and move on to a real account
only upon reaching those goals. For example, only when 7 out of every 10
trades are profitable, or only when you have achieved a monthly return of
5%, or only after you are consistently clearing 100 PIPs per winning trade
will you allow yourself to put real money on the line. In short, you should
delay the transition to a real-money trading account until you are supremely
confident that forex trading will be a gainful pursuit for you, and not one
minute earlier. Given that many forex brokers offer demo accounts that never
expire, there is truly no rush.
Of course, you must make sure that you understand that demo account
trading will be very different from trading with an actual account. The
currencies and the spreads are the same. Your strategy will generally be the
same. What’s different is that when real money is on the line, you will learn
how quickly confidence can give way to fear. For me, the best analogy is
Ping-Pong. When going through warm-up volleys, I find that I am both
aggressive and confident, dominating my opponent. When the game begins,
and points are suddenly on the line and my ego hangs in the balance, I
inevitably shrink into defensive mode and allow my opponent to beat me
through attrition. The point is that when there is something at stake—whether
victory in a Ping-Pong match or your risk capital—it is much more difficult
to stick to a plan and remain even-keeled. As a result, you should establish
higher thresholds for profitability with your demo account. A win rate of
55% with a demo account may be equivalent to 45% in a real account—the
difference between success and failure. If you find that you can’t handle the
stress of a real account and your performance has worsened significantly
compared to your demo account, you should take a step back. If you need to
return to your demo account, then so be it.

Forex for Beginners 247
Plan Your Trade and Trade Your Plan
Perhaps the only forex adage more commonplace—and clichéd—than “The
trend is your friend” is “Plan your trade and trade your plan.” Here’s another
one: “If you fail to plan, then you may as well plan to fail.” Simply,
establishing a trading plan is one of the easiest and most effective steps
toward maximizing your chances of success and minimizing the impact of
inevitable failure along the way. The overarching purpose of a trading plan is
to instill discipline and consistency into your daily trading activities. By
adhering to the same system every time you make a trade, you can
effectively limit the corrosive role of emotion and quickly determine the
cause of any losses.
Over the last ten chapters, I have introduced many of the elements of a
successful trading plan. Here, I want to offer a more formal methodology.
You should begin by answering the following question: What is your goal in
trading forex? At the end of the day, investors of every stripe are financially
motivated, some undoubtedly more so than others. Do you want to earn
$15,000 per year? Perhaps you are aiming for a compounded monthly return
of 5%? Or maybe your goals are measured in PIPs, as in 10 PIPs per trade, or
100 PIPs per week?
Make sure that your goals are reasonable (also known as achievable) and are
consistent with your financial parameters. In other words, if your goal is to
make $15,000 per year, make sure that your trading account is funded with at
least $50,000. If you are aiming for 100 PIPs per week but you only to intend
to place 1–2 trades per month, it will be difficult to achieve your goal. If your
goal is 10 PIPs per trade, understand that a substantial time commitment will
be required if you want to earn meaningful profits.
The next step is to clearly plan out your trading strategy or trading system.
As I explained in Chapter 7, your system may be extremely fine-tuned and
based on specific technical or fundamental indicators. For example, your
trading system might be based on a moving average crossover or an apparent
disconnect between interest rate differentials and recent price performance.
Instead, you might define it in general terms, as a backtested technical system
or a fundamental strategy, thereby giving yourself the latitude to look at
specific circumstances before deciding which strategy to execute. Perhaps
you might keep a few cookie-cutter strategies in your arsenal that you can
utilize where applicable.

248 Chapter 11 | Successful Investing
Next, you should determine the currencies—if any—that you will prioritize
and the time of day during which you will trade them. To a large extent,
these aspects will be dictated by strategic and lifestyle considerations. For
example, if you plan to seek profits through scalping, you will naturally
focus only on major currency pairs during the times of day when volume
(liquidity) is greatest. Alternatively, if you plan to adopt a fundamental
approach, you can broaden the range of currencies that you will potentially
trade. Moreover, if you are planning to hold your positions for more than one
week, it probably isn’t necessary to limit your trading to a specific time of
day.
Next, what will be your analytical approach? Which data sources will you
examine, and what time frames will you use for your charts? Generally
speaking, you should be able to provide concrete answers to these questions.
In order to avoid data overload, you should deliberately maintain a
streamlined array of analytical inputs. Perhaps the Wall Street Journal,
central bank news feeds, and daily charts are all you need. Perhaps you like
Bollinger Bands, the Relative Strength Index (RSI), and both 15-minute and
5-minute charts. In short, pick a handful of tools and stick to them. If your
approach is too inclusive, you will unintentionally discover contradictory
evidence everywhere you look and be burdened to the point of inaction.
This list of data inputs will dictate how you prepare for trading. For example,
when you open your trading platform each day (or week) with the intention
of trading, you should immediately pull up your customized charts and data
feeds and begin the process of analysis. Ideally, you will discover a trading
opportunity, which you can then execute according to your trading plan.
Without a formula for preparation, you risk wasting your time, conducting
arbitrary analysis, and even placing haphazard trades.
What about your system of risk management? Will you limit any position to
5% of available margin? 10%? Will you maintain stop-losses on all
positions? At what level? Will you hedge your positions using options? Do
you have a strategy for scaling in and out of your positions depending on
how they perform? Along similar lines, how will your approach be impacted
by scheduled news releases? Will you actively seek them out for their
volatility or actively avoid them because of their unpredictability? Even if
you are ambivalent about trading during major events, you should still make
sure that you are aware of them. As I will discuss in greater detail later, a
good risk-management system could make the difference between striking

Forex for Beginners 249
out early and being able to weather a string of losses and stay in the game for
the long haul.
Finally, what behavior rules will you incorporate into your trading plan? If
you expect to make multiple trades per day, you might need to establish a
rule that dictates that, after 3 consecutive losing trades, you quit for the day.
Perhaps you need to check your own egotism by maintaining hard stops.
Similarly, if you have a long-term approach, you might consider
implementing a patience clause into your trading plan that will prevent you
from closing positions at an early stage and/or overtrading. Like your risk-
management system, these rules will help you maintain discipline and
prevent losing trades from significantly influencing the viability of your
approach.
Remember that there are no cut-and-dried rules for developing a trading plan.
Some traders prefer to work backward, using their trading capital and
lifestyle considerations to set goals, rather than the other way around. In any
event, the important thing is to make sure that your approach to forex is
internally consistent and that you have confidence in your plan. If you find
that you aren’t achieving success with your current trading plan, you should
first confirm that you are in fact steadfastly adhering to it. If in spite of
unadulterated loyalty to your trading plan, you are still consistently losing
money, then—and only then—should you set about forming a new plan.
In Table 11-3, I have laid out a few hypothetical trading plans. As for which
plan is the best, I can tell you that I personally prefer Plan 3, which is aligned
with my financial goals, my personality, and my forex philosophy.
Table 11-3. Three hypothetical trading plans
Plan 1 Plan 2 Plan 3
Goal 100 PIPs per week 10 PIPs per trade $15,000 per year
Trading Strategy/ Backtested Trading
Scalping Swing Trading
Criteria System
Target Currencies/ EUR/USD,
High volume/volatility Any currencies
Market USD/JPY, GBP/USD
Time Frames Hourly Chart 15-Minute Chart Daily Chart
Look at Economic Quickly enter and exit Compare economic
Preparation/Data
Calendar, Study positions in currencies fundamentals with
Sources
Trend lines on the move actual performance

250 Chapter 11 | Successful Investing
Plan 1 Plan 2 Plan 3
Move stops to
Max 5% of account
Risk Management breakeven when
1% stop-loss balance on single
Rules position value is
position
positive
Major Events Stay out of market Prefer Unaffected
Avoid seeking No overtrading; only
Behavior Rules “revenge” after losing Minimize role of fear add to profitable
trades positions
You might find that you are inclined toward Plan 1 or Plan 2, or that the plan
you are conceiving is actually quite different from all of these hypothetical
plans. Ultimately, beware of off-the-shelf templates (including the three laid
out above!), and take the time to develop a unique plan that is molded to fit
you and your needs.
Risk Management
Risk management is one of the most important components of a good trading
plan. Generally speaking, risk management encompasses two goals:
minimizing the size of losses and limiting the impact of losses on your future
trading.
Regardless of strategy, every forex investor will experience losing trades.
While the frequency of losses will vary, even the best traders anticipate
losing money on at least 1/3 of all trades. Mediocre/novice traders can expect
to lose close to half of the time, which is to say they would do just as well
flipping a coin in lieu of practicing solid analysis. What’s worse is that losing
trades may not be evenly distributed. In other words, it would be ideal if two
profitable trades were followed by one losing trade, so as to ensure that one’s
account balance would generally follow a rising trend. In reality, however,
two winning trades might be followed by four losing trades, which are then
followed by six winning trades. In this case, the overall success rate might
remain the same (2/3), but one’s account balance would fluctuate erratically
in the interim, perhaps even falling below break-even. Minimizing the
practical impact of such a streak represents the crux of risk management.
Consider further that the unfortunate laws of mathematics imply that the
effect of losses (in percentage terms) will be inherently greater than gains.
For example, if you lose 10% on a single trade, you will need to gain 11% on

Forex for Beginners 251
your next trade in order to square your gains and losses. A record of 5%
losses on 5 consecutive trades requires offsetting gains of 33%. If you are
unlucky (or unskilled) to the point of losing a cumulative 80%, then you will
need to rack up gains of 400% from here on simply to get back to even! This
is depicted in Figure 11-1 below.
Figure 11-1. Cumulative losses result in a lower account balance and require exponentially
greater gains in order to return to the breakeven level.
If you were to reach such a desperate position, you should consider quitting
forex altogether—or at least taking a break or returning to a demo account.
Alternatively, you should consider recapitalizing your account and making a
fresh start. Failing to adopt either of these measures and continuing to trade
as if nothing had happened would be both foolhardy and futile. You will
probably end up risking larger amounts of money and taking on greater
leverage in a vain attempt to get back to even, succeeding only in hastening
the decline of your account balance.
With this in mind, you should make use of a handful of risk-management
tools to make sure that your account balance never even falls to such dire
levels. First of all, you should have a contingency plan (like the behavior
rules outlined in Table 11-3) so that you can act quickly in the event of a
string of losses or a large decline in your account balance. Will you rethink
your strategy? Take a time-out? Add money to your account? All of the
above?

252 Chapter 11 | Successful Investing
Second, you should minimize the amount of account equity that you place at
risk on each trade. By risking 2% instead of 5%, for example, consecutive
losing trades will have less of an impact on your overall account balance.
Third, consider holding positions for longer durations of time, as well as
raising your profit threshold for each trade. Instead of trying to earn 50 PIPs
twice a day, aim for 200 PIPs once a week.
Finally, consider establishing a risk-to-reward ratio target. In other words,
you should not only seek to record more winning trades than losing trades,
but you should also aim for your average winning trade to produce a higher
gain than the amount you give back on your average losing trade. For
example, if you only experience winning trades 1/3 of the time but your
average gain is twice as big as your average loss, than you will still
breakeven overall. Seen another way, if you set a stop-loss at 1% and take
profits after 2%, you will come out ahead overall, as long as you experience
winning trades 33% of the time. This can be seen in the trading log depicted
in Table 11-4.
You can also use this framework to calculate position sizes. For instance, if
you don’t want to lose more than $100 on a single trade and you seek a risk-
to-reward ratio of 1% to 2%, then you shouldn’t open a position greater than
a $10,000 mini-lot. (A 1% stop-loss on a $10,000 mini-lot position equates to
a loss of $100.)
Of course, without strong analytical skills, solid strategy, and a well-honed
trading plan, you will still lose money in spite of good risk management. At
the very least, however, the attrition of your account balance will be slower,
giving you ample opportunity to retool, cut your losses, and even quit trading
altogether before it is too late.
Trading Log/Journal
In addition to developing a good risk-management system, you should also
make an effort to keep a record of all of your trades. You should dutifully
write down the circumstances (date/time, currency, long/short, trigger) under
which you opened and closed the position, and calculate the gain/loss, both
in terms of the number of PIPs and the actual dollar amount. You should
assess the success/failure of each trade and make notes about what went right
or wrong. In addition, you can use Microsoft Excel to keep a running report
of various performance metrics, such as net, average, and maximum

Forex for Beginners 253
gains/losses. Table 11-4 contains a hypothetical trading log, as well as a
handful of performance metrics. For the purpose of simplicity, it is shown in
a simplified form.
Thanks to the meticulousness of my trading log, I can already draw a handful
of strong conclusions after only a few weeks of trading. First of all, I suffered
two needlessly large losses (of 230 and 120 PIPs) because I recklessly
neglected to put stop-losses in place for these two positions. Secondly,
trading the news does not appear to be working well for me, as I managed to
rack up 400 PIPs in losses over 3 trades with this strategy. Meanwhile, my
technical and fundamental analysis skills appear to be equally well-honed, as
both strategies were net profitable for me. In addition, I did better on long
positions (plus 410 PIPs) than on short positions (-157 PIPs), though it’s
impossible to determine ipso facto whether this was due to poor strategy or
mere chance. Unfortunately, my trading log doesn’t include time data; it
would be useful to know whether there was any correlation between trade
duration and profitability.
Overall, only 50% of my trades were winners, but because my average win
was greater than my average loss, I earned a net profit. However, my risk-to-
reward ratio was a mere 1.31. This implies that every 130 PIPs that I earned
entailed a risk of 100 PIPs, which is far from ideal. In addition, while net
gains of 253 PIPs over 3 weeks is a respectable accomplishment, I might
have fared just as well if I had only opened a handful of positions instead of
30. This was reinforced by my experience on March 23, when I managed to
lose 222 PIPs on 5 consecutive losing trades, the majority of which were on
the EUR/USD. Perhaps I should have cut my losses rather than vainly trying
to chase the retracement that never came.
I think that there is ample scope for improvement in my performance. I
already mentioned that I should stop trading the news and contemplate
holding positions for longer periods of time. In addition, I might consider
setting tighter stop-losses and riding out my winning positions, rather than
taking profits quickly. If executed properly, this new strategy should raise my
risk-to-reward ratio, allowing me to achieve greater gains with less exposure
to losses.

254 Chapter 11 | Successful Investing
Table 11-4. Hypothetical trading log
Long Gain
Currenc Buy Sell
Date / Entry Exit (Loss)
y Trigger Trigger
Short PIPs
Mar-20 EUR/US Long 1.3229 Technical 1.3269 Take Profit 40
Mar-20 USDD/JPY Long 83.7300 Fundamental 83.7387 Take Profit 87
Mar-21 EUR/US Long 1.3107 Fundamental 1.3198 Take Profit 91
Mar-21 EURD/US Short 1.3299 News 1.3529 Cut Losses (230)
Mar-21 USDD/JPY Short 82.7061 Technical 82.7117 Stop-Loss (56)
Mar-22 GBP/US Long 1.5862 Technical 1.5902 Take Profit 40
Mar-23 GBPD/US Long 1.5904 Technical 1.5886 Stop-Loss (18)
Mar-23 EURD/US Short 1.3109 Technical 1.3141 Stop-Loss (32)
Mar-23 EURD/US Short 1.3389 Fundamental 1.3509 Cut Losses (120)
Mar-23 EURD/US Long 1.3409 Fundamental 1.3375 Stop-Loss (34)
Mar-23 USDD/JPY Short 82.3871 Fundamental 82.3889 Stop-Loss (18)
Mar-26 USD/JPY Long 82.3311 Technical 82.3365 Take Profit 54
Mar-26 GBP/US Long 1.5904 Technical 1.5949 Take Profit 45
Mar-27 USDD/CH Short 0.9116 Technical 0.9124 Bad Trade (8)
Mar-27 USDF/CH Short 0.9093 Fundamental 0.9026 Take Profit 67
Mar-27 GBPF/US Short 1.5904 Technical 1.5834 Take Profit 70
Mar-27 GBPD/US Short 1.5949 Technical 1.5961 Stop-Loss (12)
Mar-28 GBPD/US Long 1.5996 Technical 1.5945 Stop-Loss (51)
Mar-29 USDD/JPY Long 82.6079 News 82.6006 Stop-Loss (73)
Mar-29 USD/JPY Long 82.1954 Fundamental 82.2088 Take Profit 134
Apr-01 USD/CH Short 0.9027 Fundamental 0.8977 Take Profit 50
Apr-01 EURF/US Short 1.3166 Technical 1.3046 Take Profit 120
Apr-02 USDD/CH Long 0.9014 Technical 0.9129 Take Profit 115
Apr-03 USDF/CH Long 0.8971 Fundamental 0.8936 Stop-Loss (35)
Apr-03 USDF/JPY Short 81.2957 Technical 81.2891 Take Profit 66
Apr-03 EUR/US Short 1.3236 News 1.3333 Stop-Loss (97)
Apr-04 EURD/US Short 1.3311 Fundamental 1.3268 Take Profit 43
Apr-04 GBPD/US Long 1.6049 Fundamental 1.6103 Take Profit 54
Apr-05 GBPD/US Long 1.6107 Technical 1.6096 Stop-Loss (11)
Apr-05 USDD/JPY Long 82.2770 Technical 82.2742 Stop-Loss (28)
Total Trades 30 Max Win 134
Winning 15 Max Loss (230)
Tra%d eosf Total 50% Avg Win 72
Losing Trades 15 Avg Loss (55)
% of Total 50% Avg Payoff 17
Total Gains 1076 Risk-to-Reward Ratio 1.31
Total Losses (823) Total Long Profit 410
Net Gains 253 Total Short Profit (157)
Total Technical Gains 334
Total Fundamental 319
GToatianls News Gains (400)

Forex for Beginners 255
While this extended example was entirely hypothetical, it nonetheless
illustrates the usefulness of keeping a trading log. If I had merely made
mental notes, it seems unlikely that I would have been able to draw such
concrete conclusions, and it would be very difficult for me to make
substantive improvements. With an even more detailed trading log,
meanwhile, I could likewise perform more detailed analyses of my trading
habits.
In your trading log, you might list specific information on trading setups and
rationales. The inclusion of certain additional parameters would enable you
to assess whether your performance varied depending on time of day, day of
week, and so forth. Perhaps you achieved better results with specific
currency pairs? Maybe you could indicate the specific strategy/trading
system on which you relied rather than a note that it was technical or
fundamental. The more information that you collect, the easier it will be for
you to make changes where needed.
Finally, you should consider keeping a trading journal, which will serve as
the qualitative counterpart to your quantitative trading log. Instead of
focusing on performance metrics, your journal should document your frame
of mind as you enter and exit positions. What analytical tools guided your
trade? How did you determine the position size? Why did you pull the trigger
at the point that you did? What role did your emotions play, and to what
extent did they affect the outcome of the trade? You might find it difficult to
perform detailed retrospective assessments on all of your trades (another
argument in favor of making fewer of them), so focus on those that were
noteworthy or surprising. If possible, supplement your general thoughts with
charts and specific data points. It is true that hindsight is always 20/20, and
only thorough post-trade analysis will you give yourself the opportunity to
reap the benefits from this hindsight going forward.
Trading Psychology
Mastering the psychology of trading and achieving control of one’s emotions
represents the final step in the process of becoming a successful forex trader.
For those that are skeptical of the emotional aspects of trading, consider that
the majority of the professional traders with whom I happen to be acquainted
insist that psychological control is actually more important than a good
trading system and analytical skills. Consider also that simple experiments

256 Chapter 11 | Successful Investing
have resolutely demonstrated that investment performance differs according
to psychological makeup, all else being equal.
The most common psychological pitfalls are excessive greed and fear. Every
trader—and markets in the aggregate—are ruled by these two primal
emotions, and in moderate doses they are very healthy. If you allow them to
reach extreme levels, however, they can disrupt your trading plan and
detrimentally affect your account balance. Some examples of excessive greed
are unreasonable expectations and the desire to earn outsized profits, which
give rise to overtrading, high leverage, and inadequate risk management.
Examples of excessive fear are root discomfort with losing and general
anxiety about trading, manifested as skintight stop losses, inadequate risk-
taking, and an inability to pull the trigger. The best way to curtail greed is to
develop reasonable expectations, while coping with fear simply requires a
tolerance of losing. In short, you will not become a millionaire trading forex,
nor should you ever find yourself in the position of having to stomach
unaffordable losses.
The next category of pitfalls involves excessive confidence or a complete
lack thereof. Traders that are supremely self-confident may insist on proving
that they are right. Repeatedly adjusting a stop-loss downward in the vain
hope that your position will imminently rebound is a manifestation of this
symptom. So is re-deploying the same strategy over and over again, despite
the absence of demonstrable success. Traders that are overly diffident,
meanwhile, have difficulty reaching the point of trusting their own trading
systems. They are likely to follow trends robotically and will usually seek to
trade with the prevailing market direction. They are apt to blindly follow
strategies that they have read about on forums or that their favorite forex
guru is promoting, without first establishing whether they are suited to their
individual circumstances. Finally, they may fall victim to scams, shelling out
hundreds of dollars for bogus courses and forex robots. The solution is to
achieve a tempered sense of confidence. Develop your own unique trading
plan, but be prepared to tweak it if evidence emerges that it is not reliable.
Then there is discipline. Simply, to succeed in forex, you must be motivated,
and you must be patient. If your analysis is rushed and sloppy, the results
will speak for themselves. If you make trades arbitrarily without backtesting,
your performance will be similarly random. If you spend the time to carefully
develop a complete trading plan only to deviate from it at the drop of a hat,
you might as well trade without a plan. Each and every trade merits
meticulous preparation and attention, regardless of the frequency with which

Forex for Beginners 257
you place trades. You should never trade impulsively or exit from trades
prematurely because the desired movement hasn’t materialized quickly
enough. In short, you should strive for discipline—in planning, in analysis, in
preparation, in monitoring, in journaling—in all aspects of your approach to
forex.
Ultimately, you should try to limit the role that your emotions play in forex.
You will certainly feel a sudden pang of euphoria after each winning trade.
While you are entitled to feel a sense of accomplishment, don’t let this cloud
your judgment; many traders experience their largest losses immediately
following their largest gains. In addition, don’t allow yourself to be
overcome by feelings of revenge after one or more trades don’t go your way.
Trying to prove a point or get even with the market won’t help your account
balance recover and could ignite a vicious cycle of anger and further losses.
Just like a boxer seeks to fight without any personal animus toward his
opponent, so should you approach forex unencumbered by emotion. Try to
cultivate equanimity when trading. Don’t allow big wins to overinflate your
confidence, and try to shrug off your losses. Understand your demons and, if
need be, develop behavioral rules—such as those included in the hypothetical
trading plans of Table 11-3—so that you don’t fall victim to the innate
psychological pitfalls that I introduced earlier. Take time off when you find
that you cannot manage the stress of trading or when you feel that your
emotions are negatively affecting your trading. Above all, make an effort to
stick to your trading plan and execute it mechanically so that emotion never
even has a chance to take root.
The Business of Trading Forex
If your goals for forex are ambitious (such that it will come to represent a
significant component of or even the lion’s share of your income), then you
should approach forex as though it were a business. In other words, you will
need to adopt an organized approach. Forex should not be something that you
try to squeeze in whenever you feel like it; rather, you should strive to set
aside a fixed amount of time for it and work forex into your daily routine.
You should dedicate time exclusively toward education and research, distinct
from the time that you actually spend trading and monitoring your account.
Ideally, you might want to leave such homework for the weekends, when you
won’t be distracted by live markets and the possibility of executing trades.

258 Chapter 11 | Successful Investing
A business also requires its own space. Establish an office where personal
and other external stimuli cannot penetrate. Depending on the rigor or your
forex regimen, you may also want to consider purchasing a separate
computer that is dedicated exclusively to forex-related activities. Forex is not
like your 9-to-5 job, which is probably interrupted by your frequent checking
of your Facebook account and espn.com. When your forex notebook
computer is powered on, it is forex time.
Finally, you need to manage the finances of your forex business. All
expenses should be dutifully recorded, and you should try to calculate the
return-on-investment for all expenditures, including this book! At monthly,
quarterly, and yearly intervals, you should perform a review of your account.
If you maintain a trading log, you should be able to view profitability and
performance metrics in real-time. Did your performance meet your
expectations? If so, you should consider withdrawing a fraction of your
profits from your account so that your earnings become real and not only
digital. (So real that you will also unfortunately need to pay taxes on them . .
.) If your performance was unsatisfactory, what can you do to improve it?
Remember that, as is the case with any new business, it will take time for
your forex business to develop. Give yourself a reasonable time period
within which you hope to achieve success. Profits will not come overnight,
but with hard work, your forex business will one day be able to stand on its
own two feet!
Conclusion
Who knew that forex was so complicated? To succeed takes not only
analysis, but also understanding; not only planning, but also execution; not
only the pursuit of gains, but also the limiting of losses. Fortunately, you are
now well on your way to becoming an expert—or at the very least, toward
becoming a successful currency trader.
My aim in writing this book was to provide you with a solid foundation and
knowledge base for engaging with the forex markets. How you apply that
knowledge is up to you. Take things slowly, and good luck!

