PDFaid.com

FOREX
TRADING
SECRETS
TRADING STRATEGIES
FOR THE FOREX MARKET
JAMES DICKS
New York Chicago San Francisco Lisbon London
Madrid Mexico City Milan New Delhi San Juan
Seoul Singapore Sydney Toronto

Copyright © 2010 by The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc. All rights reserved. Except as permitted under
the United States Copyright Act of 1976, no part of this publication may be reproduced or distributed in
any form or by any means, or stored in a database or retrieval system, without the prior written
permission of the publisher.
ISBN: 978-0-07-174709-7
MHID: 0-07-174709-5
The material in this eBook also appears in the print version of this title: ISBN: 978-0-07-166422-6, MHID:
0-07-166422-X.
All trademarks are trademarks of their respective owners. Rather than put a trademark symbol after every
occurrence of a trademarked name, we use names in an editorial fashion only, and to the benefit of the
trademark owner, with no intention of infringement of the trademark. Where such designations appear in
this book, they have been printed with initial caps.
McGraw-Hill eBooks are available at special quantity discounts to use as premiums and sales promotions,
or for use in corporate training programs. To contact a representative please e-mail us at
bulksales@mcgraw-hill.com.
This publication is designed to provide accurate and authoritative information in regard to the subject
matter covered. It is sold with the understanding that neither the author nor the publisher is engaged in
rendering legal, accounting, or other professional service. If legal advice or other expert assistance is
required, the services of a competent professional person should be sought.
—From a Declaration of Principles jointly adopted by a Committee of the American Bar Association and
a Committee of Publishers.
TERMS OF USE
This is a copyrighted work and The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc. (“McGraw-Hill”) and its licensors
reserve all rights in and to the work. Use of this work is subject to these terms. Except as permitted under
the Copyright Act of 1976 and the right to store and retrieve one copy of the work, you may not
decompile, disassemble, reverse engineer, reproduce, modify, create derivative works based upon, trans-
mit, distribute, disseminate, sell, publish or sublicense the work or any part of it without McGraw-Hill’s
prior consent. You may use the work for your own noncommercial and personal use; any other use of the
work is strictly prohibited. Your right to use the work may be terminated if you fail to comply with these
terms.
THE WORK IS PROVIDED “AS IS.” McGRAW-HILL AND ITS LICENSORS MAKE NO GUARAN-
TEES OR WARRANTIES AS TO THE ACCURACY, ADEQUACY OR COMPLETENESS OF OR
RESULTS TO BE OBTAINED FROM USING THE WORK, INCLUDING ANY INFORMATION
THAT CAN BE ACCESSED THROUGH THE WORK VIA HYPERLINK OR OTHERWISE, AND
EXPRESSLY DISCLAIM ANY WARRANTY, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A
PARTICULAR PURPOSE. McGraw-Hill and its licensors do not warrant or guarantee that the
functions contained in the work will meet your requirements or that its operation will be uninterrupted or
error free. Neither McGraw-Hill nor its licensors shall be liable to you or anyone else for any inaccuracy,
error or omission, regardless of cause, in the work or for any damages resulting therefrom. McGraw-Hill
has no responsibility for the content of any information accessed through the work. Under no circum-
stances shall McGraw-Hill and/or its licensors be liable for any indirect, incidental, special, punitive, con-
sequential or similar damages that result from the use of or inability to use the work, even if any of them
has been advised of the possibility of such damages. This limitation of liability shall apply to any claim or
cause whatsoever whether such claim or cause arises in contract, tort or otherwise.

To be successful you have to have a mentor. Someone who can inspire you,
someone that will listen to you, someone that will give you sound advice
whether you want to hear it or not. If you don’t have a mentor, that some-
one to help you get to the top, then keep looking. For me it’s My Uncle
Jack. I know there were many times that he felt I was not listening but
I always was. Thanks for everything you do, this book is dedicated you.

This page intentionally left blank

Contents
Preface xi
Acknowledgments xiii
Disclaimer xv
Introduction xvii
Part 1 The Basics 1
1 What You Must Know to Get Started 3
Back to the Basics: A History of the FOREX 3
FOREX versus Stocks 7
FOREX versus Futures 9
2 Major Currencies and Pairs 11
The U.S. Dollar 11
The Euro 12
The Australian Dollar 12
The Canadian Dollar 13
The British Pound 13
The Swiss Franc 14
The Japanese Yen 14
The New Zealand Dollar 15
The Dollar Index 15
The Dow Jones Industrial Average (DJIA) 16
Gold CFDs 16
Crude Oil 17
Cross-Rate Currency Pairs 17
Exotic Currency Pairs 18
Chinese Yuan or Renminbi 18
Swedish Krona 18
Norwegian Krone 19
The Iraqi Dinar 19
v

vi CONTENTS
3 Anyone Can Learn the FOREX 21
FOREX 101 21
Opening a Position 21
Trading on Margin 23
Managing a Position 23
Closing a Position 24
Pips and Lots 24
The Lot 27
Order Types 27
Where Is the Market Going? 29
Stops and Targets 32
Spreads and Swaps 33
Technical versus Fundamental 34
4 Preparing Yourself Adequately before Jumping
into the Market 37
FOREX Trading Accounts 37
Choosing a Broker 38
Tools 47
Who Trades the FOREX? 49
What Kind of Trader Am I? 50
Trading Techniques 51
The Trader’s Levels of Ascension 55
Part 2 Money Management 59
5 The Secret to Making Money 61
Are You Really Fit to Trade in the FOREX Market? 61
Trading Plans 62
Rules and Discipline 67
How the Market Works 73
Rules for Working with the Market 74
Paper Trading 77
6 How to Keep Your Profits 81
Money Management 81
Managing Risk 86
Leverage and True Leverage 87
Overtrading and Overconfidence 89
Overleveraging 91
Trade Expectations 92

CONTENTS vii
Part 3 Trading Psychology 93
7 Mastering Emotions 95
Trading Psychology 95
Emotions of Trading 99
How to Get Out of a Bad Trade 105
Become a Pro 110
8 Mind over Matter for Huge Profits 113
Affirmations 113
Power of Networking 117
Part 4 Fundamental Analysis 121
9 Economics 123
What Does Economic Release Mean? 123
Fundamental Analysis 123
Dow Theory 125
Fundamental Indicators 127
Japan’s Monetary Policy 137
FOREX Currency Carry Trade 139
Interventions 140
Gross Domestic Product (GDP) 142
Trading the News 143
What Are Contrarian Indicators? 145
Part 5 Technical Analysis 147
10 Technical Indicators 149
Technical Analysis 149
Types of Charts Showing Price Action 150
Trend Indicators 162
Market and Volatility Indicators 168
Understanding Oscillators 173
A Unique Indicator: Ichimoku Kinko Hyo 176
Divergences 177
11 Technical Patterns 181
Candlesticks 181
Chartism Patterns 185
Reversal Patterns 186
Continuation Patterns 192

viii CONTENTS
Elliott Waves 203
Harmonic Price Patterns 208
Fractals 214
Trading Naked (Only Price Action) 215
12 Support and Resistance 217
Support 217
Resistance 218
Trendlines 219
Moving Averages 219
Other Indicators 220
Entering Positions 221
Exiting Positions 222
Pivot Points: Do They Work? 222
Psychological Levels 226
Using Multiple Time Frames 228
Trend Is Your Friend 231
13 Automated Trading 233
Expert Advisors and Automatic Programming
Interfaces (APIs) 233
Advanced Robots: Neural Networks in the FOREX 235
Part 6 Building Your Portfolio 239
14 Secrets to FOREX Diversification 241
FOREX Options 241
Spot FOREX Options 246
FOREX Futures 247
FOREX Exchange-Traded Funds (ETFs) 248
Contracts for Difference (CFDs) 249
Commodities 250
Indices (Securities) 251
15 My Favorite Ways to Trade 253
Breakouts 253
Channeling 258
Hedging 261
Basic Oscillator-Based Strategy 262
Basic Moving-Average Crosses 263
Trading Gaps 264
Daily High-Low 265

CONTENTS ix
CONCLUSION 269
APPENDIX 273
GLOSSARY 289
BIBLIOGRAPHY 299
INDEX 301

This page intentionally left blank

Preface
There are many books on the market that cover the subject of FOREX trad-
ing. But I believe that until now, there has never been a book on this unique
topic that has so vividly described the subject of the FOREX—a universe
completely of its own. The FOREX market is an anonymous entity that
bears many faces, and each individual who participates in it leaves a foot-
print that just might change the course of their personal circumstances
based on their individual hopes and dreams for success.
This book was written with several purposes in mind. First of all, this
book is designed to inform and educate the potential FOREX trader about
a field that is growing exponentially around the world and is reaching mil-
lions of individuals from all walks of life. It is a market that was reserved
for a select few just a decade ago but now is in the hands of anyone, even
those without a formal financial education. For this reason, it is very
important to include a qualified point of view from a real trader’s perspec-
tive, a trader who has already traveled through all the steps and experienced
numerous pitfalls but now wants to share this information with you to help
you avoid or, at the very least, minimize any potential negative impact
through education and solid money management techniques.
This book also is intended to provide an overview of all the fundamen-
tals involved in the FOREX and of the trading process so that any new
trader can easily obtain all the tools needed to ensure a quick start. It is also
aimed at the intermediate trader who has already started the process but
could use some guidance and additional tools, with an emphasis on the
importance of a solid money management program and the right mind-set
to develop a successful trading career.
Written from the insider’s perspective of an experienced FOREX trader
who has gone through every step until reaching a stable and consistent
success, this book is focused on pointing out the potential hazards that
every trader will encounter at some point. In the beginning, it will offer
xi

xii PREFACE
solutions to help you understand how to mitigate many of the risks involved
by centering on dedicated attention to the preliminary preparation, educa-
tion, and training needed to become a true professional in this field.
The overview includes a history of the FOREX and its basics, as well
as a thorough description of all the fundamental, technical, and psycholog-
ical aspects and how they merge and interact in the market’s behavior.
Finally, some of the preferred trading systems are described in detail
and discussed as additional elements to help you practice and build your
trading toolbox.
I hope that you will enjoy this book and its concepts. May it bring you
a step closer to becoming a consistent winner and an educated and confi-
dent FOREX trader.

Acknowledgments
As you so often read on the acknowledgments page, the author takes a few
brief lines to say thanks. A page of appreciation is in nearly every book and
this one is no different; primarily because a project like this is just impos-
sible to successfully complete without the combined effort of an entire
team. For me I must give thanks first.
I can do everything through Him who gives me strength. — Philippians 4:13
We cannot do it on our own. It is the strength that comes through Jesus
Christ that allows us to master the difficult situations of life and to succeed
where all human wisdom sees only failure.
I was reading through my first book’s acknowledgments (FOREX
Made Easy:Six Ways to Trade the Dollar) and noticed that some of my same
team is still with me and assisted on this project, so thanks to all. I also
noticed that my family is now even bigger; I would not have been able to
complete this book if it were not for my absolute significant other, my
beautiful wife of more than 10 years. Thanks, Deb, for all the trust and con-
fidence you gave me each and every day. In my last book, I was able to get
my son James’name in the book, so I better add my daughter Jacqueline to
this one; I love you both dearly.
I, of course, will simply not be able to thank everyone individually for
their help, but for the handful of constant contributors I will try.
When working to get a book such as this completed it takes lots of
reading by lots of people. Jack Lott has been there every step of the way.
Thanks Jack for being such a great friend and team member. I know you
have read through this book a few hundred times and everyone reading it
will appreciate your effort, as I do. I am already looking forward to the next
xiii

xiv ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
project. Michael Thomas has done his fair share of reading of this book and
his specific attention to the FOREX strategies will have the reader’s appre-
ciation and understanding. Thanks for all your help and friendship. I would
like to give a special thanks to Caroline for her help in getting this project
moving and off the ground.
Finally and certainly not least, thanks to my publisher McGraw-Hill and
the entire team for their dedication of getting this book to you.

Disclaimer
The information in this book is for educational purposes only. I am not giv-
ing advice or specific financial recommendations. You must seek guidance
from your personal advisors before acting on this information. Trading can
result in losses. I accept no responsibility for any losses you may incur.
Do not invest more than you can afford to lose.
NFA- AND CFTC-REQUIRED DISCLAIMERS
Trading in the Foreign Exchange (FOREX) market is a challenging oppor-
tunity where above-average returns are available for educated and experi-
enced investors who are willing to take above-average risk. However, before
deciding to participate in FOREX trading, you should carefully consider
your investment objectives, level of experience, and risk appetite. Do not
invest money you cannot afford to lose.
FOREX futures and options trading have large potential rewards but
also large potential risk. You must be aware of the individual risks and be
willing to accept them to invest in FOREX futures and options markets.
Don’t trade with money you can’t afford to lose.This book is neither a solic-
itation nor an offer to buy/sell FOREX futures or options. No representation
is being made that any account will or is likely to achieve profits or losses
similar to those discussed in this book. The past performance of any trading
system or methodology is not necessarily indicative of future results.
There is considerable exposure to risk in any foreign exchange transac-
tion. Any transaction involving currencies involves risks, including, but not
limited to, the potential for changing political and/or economic conditions
that may substantially affect the price or liquidity of a currency.
Moreover, the leveraged nature of foreign exchange trading means
that any market movement will have an equally proportional effect on
your deposited funds. This may work against you as well as for you. The
xv

xvi DISCLAIMER
possibility exists that you could sustain a total loss of your initial margin
funds and be required to deposit additional funds to maintain your position.
If you fail to meet any margin call within the time prescribed, your position
will be liquidated, and you will be responsible for any resulting losses.
Investors may lower their exposure to risk by employing risk-reducing
strategies such as stop-loss and limit orders.
CFTC RULE 4.41
Hypothetical or simulated performance results have certain limitations.
Unlike an actual performance record, simulated results do not represent
actual trading. Also, since the trades have not been executed, the results
may have under- or overcompensated for the impact, if any, of certain mar-
ket factors, such as lack of liquidity. Simulated trading programs in general
are also subject to the fact that they are designed with the benefit of hind-
sight. No representation is being made that any account will or is likely to
achieve profit or losses similar to those shown.

Introduction
What is FOREX? FOREX (also known as FX) is the contracted name of
FOReign EXchange, an international trading market where banks, busi-
nesses, and public and private investors of all the countries in the world can
obtain and exchange their respective currencies so as to perform commer-
cial transactions or simply speculate. This market functions in a different
way from the stock market; the stock exchange has a fixed daily schedule
for opening and closing, whereas the FOREX is open 24 hours a day, five
days a week nonstop. FOREX activities start on Sunday afternoon at 5 p.m.
Eastern Time (ET) and close on Friday at 4 p.m. ET. This continuous activ-
ity is possible because there are always open markets around the world, and
today there is no need for the traders to be physically present at the exchange
location because the funds can be traded electronically from any country.
The main markets involved in the FOREX are New Zealand, Sydney,
Tokyo, China, Frankfurt, London, Zurich, and New York. The FOREX
market is the largest in the world, where more than $3.2 trillion is being
transacted every day (traditional daily turnover was reported to be over
US $3.2 trillion in April 2007 by the Bank for International Settlements.
Source: Triennial Central Bank Survey, BIS, December 2007), which is
many times larger than the combined volume of all U.S. equities and
futures markets, and thus the FOREX is also the market that possesses the
greatest liquidity. Late in 2008, with all the uncertainty in the equities mar-
kets, the FOREX daily turnover surpassed US $6.5 trillion in a day. This
market will continue to attract more and more investors.
Currency trading used to be an exclusive activity reserved to govern-
ment central banks and commercial and investment banks. In recent years,
the market has opened up and become available to smaller investors and
speculators, thanks to computers and the Internet.
There is a broad electronic network that allows central banks from all
over the world to share their quotes and actual currency rates. This is known
xvii

xviii INTRODUCTION
as the Interbank. In this way, central banks are able to exchange and
convert their currencies one into another in real time. The currencies that
are traded most commonly are the U.S. dollar, the Japanese yen, the euro,
the British pound, the Swiss franc, the Canadian dollar, and the Australian
dollar. The Interbank’s activity being continuous, and thanks to decentral-
ization from any physical location or exchange, access to real quotes and
the speed at which transactions can be performed are greatly increased.
When you are transacting on the FOREX market, you are simultane-
ously buying one currency and selling another. Currencies are always
traded in pairs, for example, pound sterling/U.S. dollar (GBP/USD) or U.S.
dollar/Canadian dollar (USD/CAD).
You would be executing a trade when there is an expectation that the
currency you are buying increases in respect to the one you are selling. If
the value of the currency you have bought effectively increases, you then
would sell the position and take a profit. Currency pairs are composed of
a base currency, which is the first on the quote, and a counter currency
(also called the quote or payment currency), which appears as second
on the quote. When the U.S. dollar is the base currency, quotes are given in
$1 USD per counter currency, for example USD/CAD or USD/JPY.
The role of the FOREX in the world economy is very important
because there is always an increasing need of currency exchange owing to
the development of technology, communications, and general international
commerce. Countries need the FOREX market to be able to sell their prod-
ucts to other countries and receive payment in their own currency or pay for
their imported goods to the foreign producer in its own currency.
In addition to commercial turnover, though, plenty of money is used
for speculation, and thus the great liquidity of the FOREX allows traders
to profit at any moment, provided they are using the right techniques and
strategies.
Over the last few years, the FOREX market has gained significant
ground in the U.S. retail marketplace. Through my many Web sites, such as
the James Dicks FOREX Network (www.JamesDicks.com), educational
tools and services, I have introduced millions of individual investors to the
retail FOREX marketplace.
The CNBC “Million-Dollar Portfolio Challenge” is well known among
retail investors. To see firsthand how exciting, how popular, and how big
the FOREX market is getting, just check out the results of the past chal-
lenges. The winner and top investors all dominated the challenge, trading
the FOREX.

1
P A R T
THE BASICS

This page intentionally left blank

1
C H A P T E R
WHAT YOU MUST
KNOW TO GET
STARTED
BACK TO THE BASICS:A HISTORY OF THE FOREX
The FOREX (i.e., FOReign EXchange) market is an international market
where the money (currency) of every country is sold and bought freely. It
was launched in the 1970s at the moment of introduction of free exchange
rates, and the price of one currency against another that occurs from supply
and demand is determined only by market participants.
There is no external control, and competition is free because all the
participants can decide to transact or not. In this respect, the FOREX is a
perfect market because it can’t be controlled or monopolized by any of its
participants. The enormous number of transactions executed day after day
in a continuous activity make it the biggest liquid financial market.
According to various assessments, money masses in the market constitute
up to US $4.5 trillion a day.
This market has seen recent turnover as high as US $6 trillion in a day,
and the average most recently has been hovering at around US $3 trillion a
day. The exact figure can’t be determined because the transactions are not
centralized on a single exchange.
Trading is conducted all over the world through telecommunications
and electronic networks 24 hours a day, 5 days a week starting from 00:00
3

4 FOREXTRADINGSECRETS
Greenwich Mean Time (GMT) on Monday (some starting a little earlier)
to 10:00 p.m. GMT on Friday (some closing a little later). There are deal-
ers quoting currencies in every time zone through the main central
markets: Frankfurt, London, New York, Tokyo, Hong Kong, Australia,
New Zealand, etc.
To get a better understanding of FOREX quotes, you just have to know
that one unit of the base currency is equivalent to the exchange rate in the
quote currency. For example, if EUR/USD is trading at 1.2762, the price of
1 euro (base currency) in dollars (quote currency) will be 1.2762 dollars.
FOREX trading is conducted through individual contracts. The standard
contract size (also called a lot) is usually 100,000 units. This means that for
every standard contract you acquire, you are controlling 100,000 units of the
base currency. For this contract size, each pip(the smallest price increment)
is worth $10. Many companies offer mini accounts in which you can trade
units of 10,000, where the pip value is $1 or even smaller.
In comparison with other markets, trading the FOREX market allows
very low margin requirements because of leverage. In FOREX, you don’t
need to obligatorily buy a currency first in order to sell it later. It is possi-
ble to open positions for buying and selling any currency without actually
having it at hand: For a standard account size, usually Internet brokers
establish a minimum deposit such as $2000 for trading in the FOREX mar-
ket and grant a leverage of 1:100. That is, opening the position at $100,000,
a trader invests $1000 and receives $99,000 as a credit.
For those wishing to get started at a smaller investment size, many bro-
kers offer a mini account. The FOREX mini account offers smaller contract
sizes controlling $10,000 units. The usual account minimum to start a mini
account is about $250.
With a mini account, you only need $50 as a margin deposit require-
ment per every $10,000 lot traded. The leverage is usually 200:1 (10,000 (cid:1)
50 (cid:2) 200), and in some cases it can rise to 400 or 500:1 (you then would
need even less margin to operate). Thus, with $250, you could trade a max-
imum of 5 minilots; with $500, a maximum of 10; with $1000, a maximum
of 20; etc.
This leverage is 50 times greater than for stocks (stock day trading pro-
vides a 4:1 intraday leverage for traders who have $25,000 or more in an
account by U.S. law). Using a high degree of leverage is not always appro-
priate because it can be very risky, but it provides the trader with a higher
degree of flexibility for the execution of different trading strategies.
Even further, now some brokers are offering a micro account. I person-
ally would not recommend these because the leverage is really high, but a

CHAPTER1 WHATYOUMUSTKNOWTOGETSTARTED 5
micro account may be a good way to get your feet wet, so to speak, by trad-
ing real money before moving on to a more standard size account. Micro
accounts require as little as $25 to open and be able to control $1000 units.
The pip values, on average, are about $0.10 (10 cents).
You can always go to www.JamesDicks.comto see what brokers I use.
The FOREX is able to maintain its objectivity and avoid being con-
trolled or manipulated by one or few of its participants because the volume
transacted is so high that if any of them would want to do so, by changing
prices at will, they would have to operate with tens of billions of dollars.
This is the reason why the FOREX can’t be influenced by any single par-
ticipant, and even though there are situations where a huge transaction can
seem to take control of the market for a few moments, the balance is estab-
lished again almost immediately because of the great liquidity involved.
This also allows traders to get a profit by opening and closing positions
within a few seconds.
The FOREX market is always moving. You can chose to maintain a
position for a very short time or for longer periods, even years; it will
depend only on your own trading strategies.
In the FOREX, it is possible to perform speculative activities without
the need for a real money supply. This is referred to as marginal trading.
The amount required as a guarantee for the transaction is low, thus provid-
ing an opportunity to open positions with a small account in U.S. dollars
(some local brokers also accept some of the main currencies, such as
the euro, pound sterling, Japanese yen, etc.) and buy or sell a lot of other
different currencies.
Transactions can be conducted very quickly and yield a profit while the
exchange rates go up or down. Marginal trading implies operating with
borrowed capital, where you need only a small percentage of the total sum
of the transaction.
For example, you have analyzed the situation in the market and have
come to the conclusion that the euro will go up against the dollar. You open
1 lot for buying the euro (EUR) with a margin of 1 percent (1:100 leverage)
at the price of 1.2750 dollars per euro (the margin needed will be $1275)
and wait for the exchange rate to go up. Sometime later, you see that your
analysis was right. You close the position at 1.2827 and earn 77 pips ($770).
Most currencies have a daily range of fluctuation of about 100 to 150
pips on average, some even more. This gives FOREX traders the opportu-
nity to make money on these changes.
There are several tools that allow the trader to be able to understand
and make decisions on the market, grouped basically under fundamentalor

6 FOREXTRADINGSECRETS
technical analysis.There is a constant exchange of political and economic
information going on, and it is important to be informed on this because
this will have an impact on the overall behavior of the market and will show
market reaction as price changes. This is called fundamental analysis, an
overview on all this information and how it affects a particular country and
currency value. Fundamental analysis takes account of rumors, political
events, and the local and international economy, such as, for example, the
rates of inflation and unemployment, taxes, and interest rates. The political
stability of a particular country and unexpected events also have great
influence on the fluctuations of that country’s currency.
Sometimes, especially in the case of economic forecasts, this infor-
mation can become a self-fulfilling prophecy in that a certain outcome is
expected, so the market reacts before the fact,thus starting a movement in
prices that can be seen as an early move, and if the forecast is confirmed,
the prices suddenly can start going in the opposite direction from the real
move because the predicted result has already occurred, and traders are
now closing their positions. This can lead to market reactions that seem
completely opposite to what the economic releases are implying for the
currency, although there are also many details that could be modifying the
outcome because all the currencies are moving in unison, and their
respective interaction will affect all the others. Thus the fundamental
details sometimes can be too big to grasp completely. Only the big banks
and financial institutions, which employ professional economic analysts,
can have access to a more precise and wide array of information with
timely accuracy.
Technical analysisaffirms, on the contrary, that all this information is
already priced in and that the resulting reactions are visible on charts. It is
based essentially on prices, time, and volume: What are the lowest and
highest prices that a currency has reached in how much time or during what
period, and how many transactions were performed?
Technical analysis also assumes the repetitiveness of the market, which
it most probably will perform again in the future as it has already per-
formed in the past. It analyzes past quotes and predicts the prices to come
based on statistical and mathematical calculations.
Both technical and fundamental analyses complement each other.
A professional trader should consider both sides at any moment because
some of the elements of each type of analysis will be present in the other.
For example, a fundamental trader will have to consider resistance and
supports, and a technical trader must be aware of the news that will have
an impact on price changes.

CHAPTER1 WHATYOUMUSTKNOWTOGETSTARTED 7
FOREX VERSUS STOCKS
What are the differences between trading in the FOREX and operating in
the stock market?
The FOREX market is always open.Like some supermarkets that are
open 24 hours, the FOREX is a “supermarket” of currencies,
open 24 hours a day, 5 days a week. The FOREX opens in most of
the brokers on Sunday at 3 to 5 p.m. Eastern Time (ET) and stays
open until Friday at 4 p.m. EST (it must be borne in mind that the
opening and closing—Sunday and Friday—may vary from broker
to broker). In this way, traders have the ability to operate either in
the American, Asian, or European markets, which gives them the
advantage of being able to react to certain events or news that is
bound to emerge and also gives them the opportunity to decide
their schedules.
No commission is charged.Most brokers do not charge additional
fees or commissions to buy or sell currencies, whether online or
by telephone. This is so because of the use of a fixed spread that
is consistent and transparent. The cost of a buy/sell in the FOREX
market is much lower than in any other market (e.g., stock,
futures, etc.). A side note to this is that because of the competition
for narrower spreads and faster executions, some brokers are
providing very tight spreads and extremely fast execution with
little latency. In order for them to do this, however, they are now
starting to charge commissions. The commissions vary, and with
a little due diligence, you will be able to find just the right broker.
Orders are executed instantly.In normal market conditions, the
execution of orders at a given price is done instantly. The trader
places the order at the quoted price, which is being updated in
real time. There is no difference between the price shown by the
broker and the price at which the purchase order is executed.
There are special conditions, though, in which market volatility is
such that orders can be delayed or requoted, but under normal
conditions, there are no such delays.
There are no restrictions on short selling.Unlike the stock market,
the FOREX has no restrictions to open sell positions (short). In the
FOREX, there is a chance to buy or sell regardless of whether the
market is bullish or bearish. Owing to the fact that in the FOREX
there is always someone buying a currency and selling another at

8 FOREXTRADINGSECRETS
the same time, there is no structural bias in the market. A trader
can operate both upward and downward in the market.
What, then, is the relationship between the stock market and the
FOREX? The stock market serves as a key indicator for the FOREX mar-
ket. Technology has facilitated the possibility of investing in markets other
than the local market/country, no matter their geographic location. There-
fore, it has forged a relationship between the stock market and the currency
of the country like this: If the stock market is going upward, it increases the
investment in dollars, but in a market that is on the downside, investors tend
to sell shares of companies in that country, attempting to recover capital
and investing in another country.
Here’s a table showing the main advantages of the FOREX versus stocks:
Advantage FOREX Stocks
24-Hour market Yes No
No commissions Yes* No
Instant execution Yes No
Short selling Yes No
*Some exceptions.
There are no intermediaries.Stock markets that tend to be centralized
have advantages for the operator. But a problem with this is the
need for an intermediary between the stock market and the trader.
However, FOREX intermediaries do not exist, and thus the trader
may buy or sell in the FOREX market without physical
intermediaries that can buy or sell a particular pair at the time that
they wish or think is appropriate. In the absence of an
intermediary, the trader gets higher profits at lower costs.
The market is not controlled for buys or sells.The stock market is
more susceptible to speculation based primarily on rumors of
buying or selling by other companies. I can see this when a big
company buys another relatively smaller company, and the value
of the company’s shares increase. But the stock market is also
likely to go down when you think that a company has been making
profits and that investors tend to take profits by selling the shares.
The analysts and firms are less influenced.The stock market is more
influenced by rumors of one company being bought by another.
This is why sometimes the firms or analysts can recommend a

CHAPTER1 WHATYOUMUSTKNOWTOGETSTARTED 9
purchase of a particular share when in fact such share will fall
based on rumors of a takeover of one company by another.
In the FOREX market, analysts just base their studies on the market
and are not influenced by rumors of purchase.This is a market
that generates billions of dollars a day for banks and certainly is
necessary for the success of global markets.
Four currencies against thousands of shares.In the FOREX market,
there are six major pairs, whereas in the stock market, there are
thousands of companies. So analyzing four key pairs is much
easier than analyzing thousands of companies. In the FOREX,
obviously there are more than a hundred pairs, but those that are
the most subject to transactions include only six major pairs.
FOREX VERSUS FUTURES
Is there a significant difference between trading futures and FOREX?
The FOREX operates at a higher volume, thus offering better
liquidity.As I have said, the FOREX is the market with more
volume, which already operates daily with highs peaking close to
US $6 trillion in turn over a day and an average near US $3
trillion a day in turn over. This market can absorb the volume of
that daily operation. The futures market, on the other hand,
operates with approximately US $30 billion a day. This is nothing
compared with US$3 trillion. This is why the futures market has
limited liquidity, whereas the FOREX market always has
complete liquidity, which tells us that sales or purchases can be
settled at any time or stop losses can jump without affecting the
market in volatile conditions. It must be said that the FOREX is
more than 45 times bigger than all the combined futures markets.
The FOREX is a 24-hour market.This is precisely the major
disadvantage of the futures market. The FOREX is a 24-hour
nonstop market, but the futures market is open only for 7 hours.
Therefore, FOREX traders have the ability to react to news that
arises elsewhere, whereas futures traders have to wait for the
opening of the daily meeting.
No commissions are involved.In the FOREX, the broker earns money
from the spreads that the broker provides. The intermediary is
eliminated, and the transactions are being done online through the
platform provided by the broker or by telephone. Logically, the

10 FOREXTRADINGSECRETS
broker assumes the spread, which is the difference between the
bid and ask prices. In the futures market, on the other hand, a
certain commission has to be paid to the broker. Some brokers in
the FOREX are starting to charge commissions so that they can
provide the tightest spreads possible. It really is a preference, but
the bottom line is that the broker will make money somehow.
After all, that is why they are in the business.
The price is known, and the execution is instantaneous.In a FOREX
transaction, the price that the trader sees at the moment is the
price that he or she will get; orders are executed instantaneously
under normal market conditions. On the other hand, in the futures
market, the order is not executed immediately. Sometimes the
price does not reflect the current market price, but the price of
the final purchase price will not necessarily be the one at which
the trader is buying.
There is a guarantee of limited risk.In the FOREX, traders can limit
their risk of losses. The risk is minimized by the platform, which
automatically generates a margin call if the margin required
exceeds the available capital in your account. Futures losses are
always a possibility; a position can be closed with losses, and
therefore, you may have a deficit in your account and incur a debt.
Keep in mind that there is always a potential to lose money trading.
All the futures commission merchants (FCMs) will provide you
with disclaimers, which they are required by law to provide. I have
been trading in the FOREX for many years, and I have never had or
seen a negative account in the spot FOREXowing to a margin call.
The main advantages of the FOREX versus futures include the following:
Advantage FOREX Futures
24-Hour market Yes No
No commissions Yes* No
Instant execution Yes No
Leverage to 400:1 Yes No
Known price Yes No
Limited risk Yes No
*Some exceptions.

2
C H A P T E R
MAJOR CURRENCIES
AND PAIRS
THE U.S.DOLLAR
The U.S. dollar (USD) is the base or quote currency with the following
FOREX major currency pairs: USD/JPY, USD/CAD, USD/CHF, EUR/USD,
GBP/USD, AUD/USD, and NZD/USD. Additionally, the USD is the base
currency and is paired with the following currencies: NOK, SEK, SGD,
DKK, CNY, MXN, BRL, ZAR, and other exotic currencies depending on
each broker’s availability.
The USD (also abbreviated $) is the official currency used in the
United States of America. It is considered the standard currency unit that is
used in commodity markets across the globe (especially gold and crude oil
markets). It also is currently the most employed reserve currency in the
world. This allows the country to hold trade deficits with other countries
without experiencing depreciation.
The volatility of the currency is usually low to medium. The economy
of the United States has the strongest influence on the rest of the world,
especially in the computer technology, medical, aerospace, and military
fields. It is principally market-oriented; thus corporations and private busi-
nesses lead in decision making.
11

12 FOREXTRADINGSECRETS
THE EURO
The euro (or EUR) is the base or quote currency with the following FOREX
major and crossed-rate currency pairs: EUR/USD, EUR/JPY, EUR/GBP,
EUR/CHF, EUR/AUD, EUR/CAD, and EUR/NZD. Additionally, the EUR
is the base currency and is paired with the following currencies: NOK, SEK,
SGD, DKK, CNY, MXN, BRL, ZAR, and other exotic currencies depend-
ing on each broker’s availability.
The euro is the currency that is actually used in most member countries
of the European Union. It was created in 1999 and implemented in 2002
and represents the result of the most important monetary reform on the
entire continent. It was designed with the intent of rendering free trade eas-
ier between the members of the Euro zone, aiming at the same time for a
political integration. The EUR/USD currency pair is nicknamed “fiber,”
and this is said to come from the fact that the Euro zone comprises the
greatest optical fiber network in the world. Its market volatility used to be
low, but it has been seen to increase to medium in the recent months.
The European Central Bank (ECB) and the other central banks of every
member country manage the currency through the European System of
Central Banks (ESCB). The ECB is the only authority that has the power to
set monetary policy, whereas the issuing and distribution of notes and coins
are done by the other members of the ESCB. All the decisions and proce-
dures among the members of the European Union are based on agreements
between its member countries. Adoption of the euro has allowed the Euro
zone to become the largest economy in the world. This actually makes it a
stronger currency than the U.S. dollar.
THE AUSTRALIAN DOLLAR
The Australian dollar (AUD) is the base or quote currency with the follow-
ing FOREX major and crossed-rate currency pairs: AUD/USD, AUD/JPY,
AUD/CHF, AUD/NZD, EUR/AUD, GBP/AUD, and AUD/CAD. It is also
the base currency in some exotic pairs.
The AUD is the official currency of the Commonwealth of Australia. It
is also familiarly called the “Aussie,” which nickname also extends to the
AUD/USD currency pair. It is the sixth most traded currency in the FOREX
market and accounts for about 5 percent of worldwide foreign exchange
transactions. Its popularity stems from the almost inexistent intervention
of Australia’s government in the FOREX market, with the add benefit of

CHAPTER2 MAJORCURRENCIESANDPAIRS 13
Australia’s political and economic stability. The volatility it shows in the
markets is low.
Australia’s economy is based on domestic industrial production
(particularly of machinery and transportation equipment) and export of
raw materials (mostly from its huge mining activity) and products from
its agricultural sector.
THE CANADIAN DOLLAR
The Canadian dollar (CAD) is the base or quote currency with the follow-
ing FOREX major and crossed-rate currency pairs: USD/CAD, CAD/JPY,
CAD/CHF, AUD/CAD, EUR/CAD, GBP/CAD, and NZD/CAD.
The CAD is the official currency of Canada. Coin and bill denomina-
tions are similar to those of the U.S. dollar. It is familiarly called the “loonie”
because of the image of a loon that appears on one of the faces of the coins,
and traders also use this nickname to designate the USD/CAD currency pair.
The volatility of the Canadian dollar in the FOREX market is low, although
it is heavily related to fluctuations in oil prices.
The economy of Canada is quite similar to that of the United States,
being market- and production-oriented, having evolved from a mostly rural
economy (before World War II), and now being principally urban and
industrial, with the increase in manufacturing, mining, and service sectors.
Its principal trading partner is the United States.
THE BRITISH POUND
The British pound sterling (GBP) is the base or quote currency with the
following FOREX major and crossed-rate currency pairs: GBP/USD,
GBP/JPY, EUR/GBP, GBP/CHF, GBP/AUD, GBP/CAD, and GBP/NZD.
Additionally, the GBP is the base currency paired with the following cur-
rencies: NOK, SEK, SGD, DKK, CNY, MXN, BRL, ZAR, and other exotic
currencies depending on each broker’s availability.
The GBP is the official currency used in the United Kingdom (Great
Britain). It is one of the world’s most widely traded currencies, along with
the U.S. dollar, the Japanese yen, the euro, and the Swiss franc. Addition-
ally, it is the currency unit with the highest value among the “majors.” The
GBP/USD currency pair is familiarly called the “cable” in traders’slang
because the rates originally were transmitted via a trans-Atlantic telegraph
cable. The market volatility of this currency is low to medium.

14 FOREXTRADINGSECRETS
The economy of the United Kingdom is one of the largest in the world,
with a strong agriculture and mining industry. The services sector repre-
sents the main percentage of the gross domestic product, and tourism has
been developing strongly in recent years.
THE SWISS FRANC
The Swiss franc (CHF) is the base or quote currency with the following
FOREX major and crossed-rate currency pairs: USD/CHF, CHF/JPY,
GBP/CHF, EUR/CHF, CAD/CHF, AUD/CHF, and NZD/CHF.
The CHF is the official currency of Switzerland and Liechtenstein. The
currency is used by the Central Bank of Switzerland. The letters CHF stand
for “Confederatio Helvetica Franc.” The USD/CHF currency pair is famil-
iarly referred to as the “Swissie” among FOREX traders. The volatility of
the Swiss franc in the FOREX market is usually low to moderate.
The CHF is a fairly stable currency, especially in its relationship to
the euro, with which it maintains a strong correlation. This causes the
EUR/USD and USD/CHF currency pairs to be the highest negatively cor-
related pairs, with a factor of more than 90 percent. Thanks to Switzerland’s
strong political and economic stability, the currency is used mostly as a
reserve currency by financial institutions and wealthy private individuals
throughout the world.
THE JAPANESE YEN
The Japanese yen (JPY) is the base or quote currency with the following
FOREX major and crossed-rate currency pairs: USD/JPY, EUR/JPY,
GBP/JPY, CHF/JPY, CAD/JPY, AUD/JPY, and NZD/JPY.
The JPY is the official national currency of Japan. Originally pegged to
the USD after World War II, the yen switched to a system of floating
exchange rates after 1971. The volatility of the JPY in the FOREX market
is usually low to medium.
Japan’s economy is predominantly based on its manufacturing industry.
The JPY traditionally has been a weak currency because its circulation is
limited to domestic business, thus hindering Japan’s position with regard to
foreign trade. Additionally, the country depends completely on oil imports
and exclusively on its export of manufactured goods; this renders the JPY
very sensitive to rises in crude oil prices and overall energy costs.

CHAPTER2 MAJORCURRENCIESANDPAIRS 15
The weakness of the currency has been maintained over the years as a
protection for the local manufacturing and export industries; however, the
JPY has been experiencing a rising trend that has diverted some foreign
investments to other countries, where much lower costs still can be found.
The most important index of Japan’s economy is the industrial production
index, which is strongly correlated with the export index.
THE NEW ZEALAND DOLLAR
The New Zealand dollar (NZD) is the base or quote currency with the
following FOREX major and crossed-rate currency pairs: NZD/USD,
NZD/JPY, GBP/NZD, EUR/NZD, NZD/CHF, and NZD/CAD.
The NZD is the official currency of New Zealand and some of the
islands on the Pacific Ocean. The currency is informally called the “kiwi”
because of the image of a kiwi bird that appears on its $1 coin, and the term
also designates most particularly the NZD/USD pair. The volatility of the
NZD in the FOREX market is low to medium.
Similar to what happened in Australia, the economy of New Zealand
has been transformed from an agricultural-based market limited to British
concessionaries into a free and industrialized market now competing on
the global scene. This has greatly helped the development of technology;
however, New Zealand’s exports still depend mostly on agricultural
products.
THE DOLLAR INDEX
The U.S. Dollar Index (USDX) measures the global value of the USD
relative to a basket of foreign currencies (e.g., Euro, Japanese yen, Pound
sterling, Canadian dollar, Swedish krona, and Swiss franc) through a geo-
metric progression weighted-average calculation. It was started in March
1973 with a value of 100, when the leading trade nations agreed to freely
quote their currencies one against the other. After reaching a peak of 165,
the USDX has been trading lower over the recent years, dropping almost
to 70 in March 2008. The USDX is listed on the New York Board of Trade,
and its value is updated continuously 365 days a year. Its volatility can be
compared with that of stock index futures because of its amplitude and
variability.

16 FOREXTRADINGSECRETS
THE DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE (DJIA)
DOW THEORY
In 1884, Charles H. Dow, who was editor of the Wall Street Journal,created
two averages or sectorial indices for the New York stock market, one called
theDow Jones Industrial Average(DJIA, or Index of the Industrial Sector)
and the other called the Dow Jones Transport Average (DJTA, or Index of
the Transportation Sector). In this way, Dow tried to establish an indicator
of economic activity, using for it an average of the evolution of certain
sectors in the stock market.
Dow thought that a rise in economic activity implied greater industrial
production. Thus, when economic activity was increasing, companies
would see increased demand for their stocks, and therefore, the quotations
for these companies on the indices would rise.
As a result, the other sectors would be affected, and their businesses
would benefit and, consequently, the prices of their shares would rise.
Based on these indexes, Charles Dow formulated his theory that is
today the basis of modern technical analysis and therefore of chartism
(analytical study based on graphs of the evolution of price for a particular
company).
DOW JONES INDEX
The Dow Jones Industrial Average (quoted as DJI on the New York Stock
Exchange, also quoted as DJIA and informally named “the Dow”) is the
second-oldest market index in the United States, after the Dow Jones
Transportation Average (DJTA) from the same creator. This index shows
how certain stocks have been trading. It was developed to evaluate perfor-
mance within the most important sectors of the American stock market. It
is calculated by computing the stock prices of 30 public American compa-
nies that represent the wider range of shares held in the market.
It is possible to invest in the DJI through a series of exchange-traded
funds (ETFs) and options tied to those ETFs (see Appendix table “Dow
Jones Industrial Average”).
GOLD CFDS
Metals, and most particularly gold, are usually traded through the futures
market or gold exploration stocks. More recently, introduction into the
markets of contracts for difference (CFDs) has allowed traders to have

CHAPTER2 MAJORCURRENCIESANDPAIRS 17
easier access to market transactions involving metals. The market quoted
by the CFD provider is a two-way market, as with FOREX currency pairs,
and thus the provider obtains a profit by means of the spread, charging no
commissions on transactions.
A gold CFD is a financial derivative that represents a theoretical order
to buy or sell at least 10 ounces of gold, which is the minimum required to
open a gold transaction. The margin required is quite low on gold CFDs,
usually representing 2 to 3 percent of the value of the transaction. You can
take the contract on the spot price or the futures price, with standard con-
tracts providing the equivalent of US $100 per $1 movement in the gold
price and mini contracts providing one-tenth that size.
There is also another type of CFD used for gold, called the binary
CFD,that is based solely on the daily rise or fall in the price of gold, with
value taken at the daily close. If gold rises, the binary CFD will close at
100, and if gold falls, it will close at 0 at the end of the day. The investor’s
profit or loss is determined by the difference between the effective opening
and closing prices.
CRUDE OIL
The price of crude oil is influenced directly by OPEC (Organization of the
Petroleum Exporting Countries), which is made up of 12 nations whose
economies depend on oil export revenues. The fluctuation in prices is
related to production quotas that are imposed by this organization. The
final prices that consumers pay for oil products are determined by several
components: supply and demand, effective production, refinery costs, and
taxes on oil, which can vary greatly depending on country.
Crude oil is traded on the market as a commodity through futures and
spot markets as well as CFDs.
CROSS-RATE CURRENCY PAIRS
The currency pairs that derive their respective rates from their individual
relationships with a third FOREX currency rate are called crosses or
cross-rate pairs.All currency pairs that do not include the U.S. dollar fall
into this group: EUR/GBP, EUR/CHF, EUR/AUD, GBP/CHF, CHF/JPY,
CAD/JPY, EUR/JPY, and GBP/JPY. They are usually very volatile owing
to a lesser liquidity, and this causes the spread between bid and ask prices

18 FOREXTRADINGSECRETS
to be much wider than on most majors, for example, the most liquid pairs,
such as EUR/USD and USD/JPY. This can be a disadvantage because it
increases the trading risks, but some of them can represent a very inter-
esting option, such as the GBP/JPY pair, precisely because of its high
volatility.
EXOTIC CURRENCY PAIRS
Some of the secondary foreign currencies that are yet somehow traded
heavily in the FOREX market are the exotic currency pairsand a few Euro-
pean but non-euro-based denominations. They are usually traded as quote
currency and paired with some of the most prominent majors (e.g., USD,
EUR, GBP, and AUD), but they also can become the base currency between
each other.
CHINESE YUAN OR RENMINBI
The Chinese yuan (CNY) is the official currency of China. CNY is the offi-
cial International Organization for Standardizations (ISO) code for the ren-
minbi (RMB), issued by the People’s Bank of China. The currency displays
a low to medium volatility in the FOREX market. In July 2005, China
revalued the yuan (which was pegged to the USD) to allow it to fluctuate
versus a basket of currencies and protect it from large swings owing to its
ties with the American currency. China’s economy has become increasingly
market-oriented and open to foreign trade and investments since 1978,
which represent a strong element in its overall growth.
SWEDISH KRONA
The Swedish krona (SEK) is the official currency of Sweden. Its volatil-
ity is evaluated as medium to high mostly owing to the wide extent of for-
eign trade, where it constantly depends on the economic status of other
currencies. Sweden is a member of the European Union, but it didn’t
adopt the euro and instead maintains its local currency as official. The
country shows a low and stable inflation rate, and its economy is mostly
based on exports, especially in the areas of information technology and
telecommunications.

CHAPTER2 MAJORCURRENCIESANDPAIRS 19
NORWEGIAN KRONE
The Norwegian krone (NOK) is the official currency of Norway. The coun-
try is one of the largest exporters of oil, and increases in the demand for oil
have injected a great deal of money into its economy, making it very depen-
dent on fluctuations in oil prices, however. The volatility of the currency
itself is low.
The economy of Norway is more service-oriented, and the country is
involved in a great number of offshore activities. It is a small country with
a small population, but it is one of the wealthiest countries in Europe.
Other exotic currencies you can find are the Danish krone (DKK) and
The Singapore dollar (SGD) with low volatility, the Mexican peso (MXN)
and the Brazilian real (BRL) with low to medium volatility, and the South
African rand (ZAR) with medium volatility.
THE IRAQI DINAR
Although not yet traded on the FOREX, the Iraqi dinar has been highly pro-
moted as a good investment in recent years since Central Bank of Iraq
started issuing a new and stable currency that experienced a great revalua-
tion, rising approximately four times its original value (from about 4000
dinars per dollar as its lower low to 980 dinars per dollar as its highest high,
actually trading at around 1200 dinars per dollar). This boom had started a
series of wild speculations and the spread of a huge promotion, especially
on the Internet, as well as scams associated with that promotion, where
unusually higher rates of exchange and thus extraordinary returns were
promised in the hope that enough speculators would be attracted, thus mak-
ing the exchange rate explode much higher as soon as the currency enters
the market.
However, the rates for the currency vary over a wide range, and there is
a huge difference between the official fixed rate of 1449 dinars for $1 set
up by the International Monetary Fund (IMF) for the Central Bank of Iraq
and retail quotes from dealers and trading companies, which offer quotes
between 1050 and 1350 dinars per $1. Additionally, this is a currency with
practically no liquidity, mostly because of the discrepancies in price and the
fact that the banks do not trade the dinar openly with the public. In addition,
dealers will sell dinars to the market but not always buy back the dinars, so
there are few counterparts for transactions, making it difficult for the
investors to cash out of the currency.

20 FOREXTRADINGSECRETS
Finally, the overextended negotiations on the Internet, with inexperi-
enced investors trapped and blinded by the fabulous promotion, allow deal-
ers to mix old dinars, bought at a much cheaper price, and new dinars, thus
lowering the value of the original amount purchased, which puts the
investor immediately at a loss. Some other dealers offer just a blatant scam,
taking the money of the investor and disappearing, never delivering the cur-
rency. It is extremely important to be well informed before risking funds
into any currency investment, especially when the offers are “too good to
be true.”

3
C H A P T E R
ANYONE CAN LEARN
THE FOREX
FOREX 101
You’ve probably heard or read about bid and ask or bid and offer. What are
those? Price quotes for a currency pair are double, one for buying and the
other for selling. The difference between the two prices is called the spread,
which will be discussed later on.
As a side note, the opposite is meant when using the same word in a
news release. For example, when there is a considerable number of pend-
ing orders awaiting for the price to reach a lower value to buy, it is said
that there are many bids on the market, but when sellers have pending
orders at a certain price higher, it is said that there are many offerssitting
at that price.
This happens because the bidprice is actually the end-value price of a
longposition, which is purchased at the askprice to allow for the spread to
be paid. The same occurs in the inverse situation; the end-value price of a
short position is the actual offer price, and it is purchased at the bid price,
so the spread is paid at the moment the particular position is closed.
OPENING A POSITION
The reason for trading the FOREX market is to make money and to diver-
sify your current portfolio. You do this through the positions you take by
21

22 FOREXTRADINGSECRETS
means of buying and selling a different set of currencies. When a currency
rises in value after you have bought it at a lower price, you realize a profit
when you close the position at a higher price. At the moment you close the
working order, you are selling back the base currency and buying its coun-
terpart currency. This operation implies a relationship of relative worth
because the value of one of the components of the currency pair will be
compared with the value of the other one; thus any currency will only have
value as a result of its comparison with another currency of a different
country.
Theposition,ororder,represents the net amount of exposure in a par-
ticular currency and in its counterpart currency because they always work
in pairs. The position is said to be flat when there is no exposure, long if
more currency has been bought than sold, and short if more currency has
been sold than bought. When you perform currency trading, you are in fact
exchanging one currency for another, expecting that the currency that you
buy will see its value rise in comparison with the currency you sell in the
operation. In the FOREX market, currencies always trade in pairs. We are
constantly and simultaneously buying one currency (the base currency,
mentioned first in the pair quote) and selling the other (the quote currency,
mentioned second in the pair quote). If we decide to realize the profit, then
we need to sell back the currency that we bought earlier at the higher cur-
rent price. If we decide to hold and do not realize the profit for a while, the
amount of a particular currency bought or sold is not being sold to or
bought back from the market and thus is said to be an open position.
Purchasing a particular currency pair, where you are also acquiring a
certain amount of the base currency and selling the same amount of the
quote currency, is also called going longorlonging the market.If we go long
10,000 units, for example, in the EUR/USD pair, we are purchasing 10,000
units of the euro, which is the base currency, and selling the equivalent sum
in U.S. dollars, which is the quote currency, which at a rate of 1.40 for
EUR/USD would represent 14,000 units of U.S. dollars. The selling of USD
units guarantees the buying of the EUR counterpart.
The same rules apply in the inverse position, where we are then
shorting the market or going short in a particular base currency, when
you see that its value is decreasing with respect to the quote currency.
Now we would be selling, for example, the 10,000 euro units and buying
back the 14,000 units of U.S. dollars because we expect the euro value to
decrease, and we would buy it back at a lower dollar price thereafter to
realize the profit.

CHAPTER3 ANYONECANLEARNTHEFOREX 23
One is said to be longin one currency when we buy it and shortin that
currency when we sell it. Long, or buy, positions use the offer or ask price
of the quotes. For example, if you acquire one lot of GBP/USD at a rate of
1.4722 bid/1.4727 ask, this means that you’ll be buying 100,000 GBP units
at 1.4727 USD. Short, or sell, positions use the bid price of the quotes.
Thus, in the preceding situation, we would be selling 100,000 GBP units at
1.4722 USD.
Trading currency pairs is simultaneous and symmetrical; this implies
that we will always be long in one currency and short in another at the same
time. In the previous example, if we exchange those 100,000 GBP units at
1.47220 USD, we will be short in pounds sterling and long in U.S. dollars.
A position that is running and active will be called an openposition. Its
value will change depending on fluctuations in market rates. Profits and
losses will be influence the margin account but will not be official until the
position has been closed.
TRADING ON MARGIN
Trading on margin is equivalent to borrowing money from a bank or a bro-
ker to purchase a particular security or currency pair. The margin needed
depends on the leverage offered by the financial institution and represents
the guarantee needed to control a certain quantity of units.
For example, when using a 100:1 leverage, the trader controls a $100,000
lot with only $1000 on margin in the account. Smaller lot sizes of $10,000
may be controlled with only $100 on margin.
Higher-leveraged accounts may allow control of greater amounts of
money in the market with less margin, but this also can be dangerous when
losses are experienced. A lower margin requirement can induce the trader
to risk more than is wise. I will discuss leverage and true leverage in detail
in Chapter 6.
MANAGING A POSITION
The position can be set up from the start of the trade, with its individual
stop-loss and target-profit levels, or it can be managed as it develops. Set-
ting and trailing the stops, balancing partial profits, and shifting entry prices
in pending stop or limit orders are other ways of managing your trades.

24 FOREXTRADINGSECRETS
CLOSING A POSITION
A position will be closed automatically when it reaches either the target-
profit or stop-loss set price resulting in a loss. Positions also can be closed
manually through specific controls on the platform or by calling the broker
directly. When you close a position manually, you are subject to the same
conditions as when opening at market price, such as requotes if the prices
have changed.
Positions also can be closed by opening a matching and opposite trade
in the same currency pair (a limit order, a stop-loss order, or simply a mar-
ket order can be used). For example, if you have gone long in one lot of
GBP/USD at the offer price, you may close out that position by going short
in one GBP/USD lot at the actual bid price. However, this is not possible
with brokers that permit hedgingthrough opening long and short positions
on the same currency pair. Hedging has been halted in the United States in
the FOREX by recent rule changes enacted with the farm bill in October
2008. You still can use hedging strategies via different accounts and differ-
ent futures commission merchants (FCMs), although not quite with the
same affect. You also can open an offshore account, which some FCMs in
the United States will allow you to do so that you can still hedge your
FOREX trades.
PIPS AND LOTS
Thepiporpoint(percentage in point) is the minimum unit of movement of
a currency. It symbolizes a 0.0001 variation in four-decimal-based currency
pairs, and a 0.01 increase or a decrease in two-decimal-based pairs. In this
way, assuming that the previous price is, for example, 1.2750 on the EUR/
USD and it rises to 1.2799, you will have a difference of 49 pips.
Each pair can have a different pip value, which is based on the rela-
tionship between the varying currency rates. It would not be calculated by
the same method for pairs where USD is the base currency as for pairs
where USD is the quote currency. This is also true in the case of crossed-
rate currency pairs.
A currency’s price moves are usually measured by the number of pips.
Every pip a currency moves will equal a specific amount of profit or loss in
real USD on every trade. Often the value of a pip changes based on which
currency pair is being traded. Only if currency pair includes USD as the
quote currency, listed second in the pair, will the value of a pip consistently

CHAPTER3 ANYONECANLEARNTHEFOREX 25
stay the same. This happens because it is how much of the base currency you
can buy or sell for the USD that fluctuates.
To determine the amount of loss or gain on a particular trade, you first
should set up the value of a pip and then multiply it by the number of pips
the currency has changed for or against your position since the trade began.
If the base currency is increasing in relation to the quote currency, each pip
above the price at which you purchased it will be counted as profit. And
vice versa, every pip that is lower than the price at which you purchased it
would increase your loss.
It’s extremely important to remember that if the countercurrency is USD
(e.g., the pair is EUR/USD), the value always remains 1 pip (cid:2)$0.0001 USD
(1/100 of a cent) for every dollar traded. This is a value of US $10 per pip
for every usual lot amount of US $100,000 traded and is US $1 for mini lots
of US $10,000. Most other currency pairs will have a pip value that changes
constantly between US $0.00006 and US $0.00009 per pip depending on
the current rate of exchange. This is US $6 to US $9 per pip for every US
$100,000 lot traded or US $0.60 to US $0.90 per pip for every US $10,000
lot traded.
Here are some more examples of the calculations to be made depend-
ing on which are the base and quote currencies:
Currency Pairs with USD as the Base Currency
USD/CHF, USD/JPY, USD/CAD
Examples:
USD/CHF
Currency value (cid:2)1.1718
Pip value (cid:2)0.0001/1.1718(cid:2)0.0000853388
On one standard lot, the pip value would be
0.0000853388(cid:3)100,000(cid:2)$8.53
USD/JPY
Currency value (cid:2)92.29
Pip value (cid:2)0.01/92.29(cid:2)0.000108354
With one standard lot, the pip value would be
0.000108354(cid:3)100,000(cid:2)$10.83

26 FOREXTRADINGSECRETS
Currency Pairs with USD as the Quote Currency
EUR/USD, GBP/USD, AUD/USD, NZD/USD
Example:
EUR/USD
Currency value (cid:2)1.2658
Pip value in euros (cid:2)0.0001/1.2658(cid:2)0.000079
Additional formula rate to USD:
Pip value (cid:2)0.000079(cid:3)1.2658(cid:2)0.0001
On one standard lot, the pip value would be
0.0001(cid:3)100,000(cid:2)$10
The same calculations apply to any other currency pairs with USD as
the quote currency: pound sterling, Australian dollar, New Zealand dollar—
where the final pip value will consistently be $10.
Crosses (Currency Pairs Where USD Is Not Present as Either the Base
or the Quote Currency)
EUR/GBP
Currency value (cid:2)0.8913
Pip value in euros (cid:2)0.0001/1.2658(cid:2)0.000112196
Additional formula rate to USD:
Pip value (cid:2)0.000079(cid:3)1.4194 (GBP/USD rate) (cid:2)0.000159251
On one standard lot, the pip value would be
0.000159251(cid:3)100,000(cid:2)$15.93
The same calculations will apply to any of the other cross-currency
pairs: GBP/JPY, EUR/JPY, EUR/CHF, etc.
The pip values in these examples are calculated to show a result in
U.S. dollars because this is the main currency used in most trading
accounts. However, many brokers permit traders to open and retain their
accounts in local and foreign principal currencies, such as euros, pounds
sterling, Japanese yen, Swiss francs, etc. In these cases, the calculations
must be made taking the different rates into account with respect to the
deposit currency.

CHAPTER3 ANYONECANLEARNTHEFOREX 27
The following table of equivalences illustrates the pip value for each
type of contract, from standard lot to nanolot, based on the preceding
examples and rates.
Currency Pair Standard Mini Micro Nano
Units 100,000 10,000 1000 100
EUR/USD $10.00 $1.00 $0.10 $0.01
USD/CHF $8.53 $0.85 $0.085 $0.0085
USD/JPY $10.83 $1.083 $0.108 $0.0108
EUR/GBP $15.93 $1.59 $0.159 $0.0159
THE LOT
The contract amount that a bank or brokerage firm allows a currency to be
traded in is called a lot.Usually, brokerages recommend two different kinds
of accounts: standard and mini. A standard lot size is $100,000, and a mini
account lot size is $10,000. There are also smaller retail institutions than
offer micro account and nano account lots, equivalent to $1000 and $100,
respectively.
ORDER TYPES
BUY/SELL MARKET ORDERS
Amarket orderis an order to buy or sell at the current market price and can
be used to enter or exit a trade. Market orders should be used carefully
because in fast-moving markets there may be a difference between the price
seen at the time a market order is given and the actual price of the transac-
tion. This is due to slippage—the amount the market moves in the few sec-
onds between issuing an order and having it executed. Slippage potentially
could result in the loss or gain of several pips.
Online trading platforms may differ a little in the manner in which they
initiate a trade, but a trade normally is accomplished through a form that
shows the current bid and ask prices. Some platforms ask for a confirma-
tion of the order; others have a direct one-click order capability. Usually
execution of the order is instantaneous or, at the very most, it takes just a
few seconds to appear as executed.

28 FOREXTRADINGSECRETS
Sometimes market orders also can be placed over the telephone at the
broker’s dealing desk. The etiquette to follow this procedure should be
verified with your broker.
BUY/SELL LIMIT ORDERS
A limit order is an order to buy or sell at a certain limit. It can be used to
buy a currency below the market price or sell a currency above the market
price. When buying, your order is executed when the market falls to your
set limit-order price. When selling, your order is executed when the market
rises to your set limit-order price. Normally, there is no slippage with limit
orders. The order essentially contains two variables, price and duration. The
trader identifies the price to buy/sell a certain currency pair and also spec-
ifies the amount of time the order should remain active.
A common use of limit orders is when a trader anticipates the price to
bounce back from a given resistance or support area after a rally or fall.
This is especially true when the currency pair has been trending.
BUY/SELL STOP-LOSS ORDERS
Astop-loss orderis an order to buy above the market value or to sell below
the market value. This type order is used most commonly as stop-loss
orders to limit losses if the market moves opposite that which the trader
expected. A stop-loss order will sell the currency if the market falls below
the point set by the trader. The order contains the same two variables, price
and duration. The main difference between a limit order and a stop-loss
order is that stop-loss orders are used frequently to limit loss potential on a
transaction, whereas limit orders are used to enter the market, add to a pre-
existing position, and/or engage in profit taking.
A trader uses a stop-loss order when he or she expects a price breakout
to happen and wants to seize the opportunity to “ride” the breakout on any
side if it develops.
OCO (ONE CANCELS THE OTHER) ORDERS
This type of order is used when placing a limit order and a stop-loss order
simultaneously. If either order is executed, the other is canceled, which
allows the trader to make a transaction without monitoring the market. If
the market falls, the stop-loss order will be executed, but if the market
increases to the level of the limit order, the currency is sold at a profit. This
is used in a straddle when trading news, a type of trading strategy used. An
OCO order is a mixture of two limit and/or stop-loss orders. Two orders

CHAPTER3 ANYONECANLEARNTHEFOREX 29
with price and duration variables are placed above and below the current
price. When one of the orders is executed, the other order is canceled.
IFD (IF DONE) ORDERS
Using an IFD order allows a trader to program particular strategies in
which there can be a sequence of trades. These trades will not be executed
until the first one is accomplished.
TIMED ORDERS
GTC (Good Till Canceled) Orders
A GTC order will remain active in the market until the trader decides to
cancel it. It will not be terminated by the dealer. For this reason, it is very
important to remember open pending orders after a strategy is executed
because any of them can become a market order at any moment when the
market price matches the order price.
GFD (Good for the Day) Orders
A GFD order remains active in the market until the end of the trading
day. This will have some deviations depending on the server time of your
broker.
Good until Date/Time Orders
This is another timed order in which the trader can specify the exact time of
the day and the date on which he or she desires to keep the order active.
WHERE IS THE MARKET GOING?
This depends on a number of factors. The market is always in a perfect
equilibrium, which it succeeds in holding thanks to the periodic varia-
tions related to interactions between the elements of which it is composed
(currencies, people, events, traders, etc.).
If you monitor using a very big time frame, you will notice something
very interesting: In almost allcases, the currency pairs move upwards or, at
least, relatively sideways.
Many long-term operators, namely, hedge funds and large capital
investors, don’t constantly open and close positions, but they use a strategy
with several elements that allows them to achieve a constant growth, slow
but safe, and almost as important, with nominal risk. However, if you look
at intraday or intraweek trading, a very diverse and opposing scenario is

30 FOREXTRADINGSECRETS
seen. If you fail to match them up and understand them from their individ-
ual perspectives, they will bring you to a tremendous amount of confusion
because it will seem to you that the market isn’t going up or down. When
you see the market rising and you decide to open a position, that could be
the precise moment the market goes against you, and you end up dazed and
frustrated.
It has been said that it is appropriate to use at least two time frames.
However, to combine them is not the same as mixing them. You should use
one longer time frame and one shorter time frame. This is the safest way to
work because you will find more precise entry and exit points for every
trade you make. In this way, you can better assure yourself of entering a
trade on time and exiting it without leaving too much on the table.
You might object that this method of combining two or more time
frames. Many people believe that this can distract the trader’s focus on what
is being done because at a certain point during the trade the shorter period
will go in an opposite direction from the longer time frame. However, when
applying this approach in real time, you may observe that the shorter period
doesn’t impede the longer one when the trade is in progress; instead, the
smaller time frame allows you to better pinpoint a suitable exit. You should
use a combination with which you feel comfortable, but there are particu-
lar combinations that I find more harmonic:
Two time frames(the longer one for watching the trend and following
the position, the smaller one for entries and exits):
● 5 minutes and 1 hour
● 15 minutes and 4 hours
● 1 hour and daily
● 4 hours and weekly
Three time frames(trading the intermediate time frame and using the
longer one for the trend and the smaller for entries and exits)
● 1 minute, 5 minutes, and 30 minutes (for extreme scalping; not
recommended for starters)
● 15 minutes, 1 hour, and 4 hours (intraday operation)
● 1 hour, 4 hours, and daily (intraweek or swing trading)
● 4 hours, daily, and weekly (longer term or position trading)
Something that increases the confusion when you are analyzing and
observing market movements is the overcrowding of charts with trendlines

CHAPTER3 ANYONECANLEARNTHEFOREX 31
and indicators that later overlap each other if you change the time frame. It
would be more efficient to use a single chart for each time frame and then
choose one that will be used only to perform the actual analysis.
Another confusion arises when you try to trade in a shorter time frame
(5 or 15 minutes) but you pretend with this to make a 100- or even 200-pip-
long run (and in a few hours, too). This is not impossible, but this is what
usually happens: The risk management is proportional. Let’s say that, on
average, the relationship is 2:1 (reward to risk) or, ideally, 3:1. More often
than not, it is 1:1 (or less) if the entries haven’t been studied with precision.
There is an average time/trade relationship that is about four or five
times greater than the time frame incrementally. For example, a position
opened on a five-minute chart, if it has potential, shouldn’t last much more
than half an hour or up to an hour if there is not much volatility. For a posi-
tion opened on the 15-minute chart, one or two hours is a maximum. If,
after the time has elapsed, there are no results, it would be better to close the
position and wait for the next breakout. On the other hand, a position
opened on a four-hour chart can last for the entire day or even two days, and
a position opened on a daily chart can last up to a week.
Another very important issue to take into account when switching time
frames is the size of the stops. You can use a fairly dependable tool, the
average true range (ATR), to measure the actual volatility and potential
scope in that time frame. Features of the ATR will be discussed in detail
under “Technical versus Fundamental” below.
You can’t afford to open a medium-term position with targets that call
for the trade to “breathe,” that is, perform its logical wave fluctuation inside
the particular range of each pair, with a 7- or 10-pip stop loss that will close
the position much earlier than desired; maybe after half an hour or a few
hours later, unless you get extremely lucky and are able to pick the top or
bottom of the price.
The ATR offers the exact measure for an adequate stop loss (you
should add the spread and, if your risk level allows it, some additional pips
to achieve increased safety). Based on this, you could expect double or
triple the ATR value as a target profit if the position is successful and more
so if it happens to be the bottom or top of a longer run and is followed up
with trailing stops, especially if you are trading in the same direction as the
higher-time-frame trend.
For a 15-pip stop loss, a target profit of 45 pips is fine (risk-reward
ratio 1:3). It’s not wise to place a stop loss much higher than the target you
expect unless your strategy will give you a 90 percent record of winning
trades, which is possible but probably won’t last for very long because the

32 FOREXTRADINGSECRETS
markets change and change quite a bit. The best option is not to go lower
than 1:2 or at a minimum 1:1.5 (stop loss: 15 pips; target profit: 22 pips, or
30/45, etc.). A 1:1 ratio also works if the performance of the strategy is
above 50 percent.
STOPS AND TARGETS
HOW TO SET A STOP LOSS
I have already mentioned ATR-based stop-loss sizing. There are other ways
to define the level at which keeping a specific position open is no longer
useful.
Support/Resistance-Based Stops
These are stops that are usually set at the most recent swing high or low or
at a specific price that the market has bounced off of repeatedly. It is rec-
ommended to set the stops a couple of pips higher or lower than the area to
allow for more safety.
The parabolic stop and reverse (SAR) is another technical indicator
that can help you set and trail a relatively safe stop loss, especially when the
currency pair is trending. Be advised that this is not recommended in
choppy or sideways markets.
Trailing Stops
There are two kinds of trailing stops. One is set automatically at a given dis-
tance from the price and is initiated at a set level, increasing thereafter
every time the price advances in the direction set. The other way of using a
trailing stop loss is manually, changing its price level as the trade develops.
Automatic trailing stops can be set on the server side of the platform, which
is the better option in case of a connection failure, or on the client side.
A stop loss order is always used to exit a trade while at the same time
limiting the eventual amount of loss. Some traders use them all the time as
a regular exit strategy, whereas others will have “emergency stops” only, to
be used in the event that something unpredictable occurs. A normal or reg-
ular stop usually is close to the price, depending on the time frame, and rep-
resents the maximum amount of loss the trader will allow himself or herself
to lose on a single trade just in case it goes the wrong way.
Backup and emergency stops are set up much farther out because the
trader doesn’t expect them to be filled. They are set only to mitigate that
unplanned power outage or connection issue that could harm the account
financially and are seen as a last resort.

CHAPTER3 ANYONECANLEARNTHEFOREX 33
A stop-loss order always should be used because it allows a quick and
automatic exit on bad trades, even if it the trader is not actively watching
the trade. Some traders do not use stops because they fear that if their
orders are visible in the market, they are more prone to be swept away by
“stop hunting” or that they might get caught by unusual price spikes in
moments of high volatility before the trade continues in the appropriate
direction.
Scalpers often trade without stop-loss orders because trades might be
held for only a few seconds. However, there is still potential for trouble,
and at least an emergency stop should be set up to avoid ending up with a
margin call.
TARGETS
Targets (or take-profit levels) are represented by the number of points or
pips a trader believes a currency pair will rise or fall depending on his or
her strategy and time frame. Calculations can be made using several tools,
supports and resistance, or the ATR and depend heavily on the time frame
being traded. A higher time frame will allow the setting of wider targets,
but this also will require a wider stop loss.
SPREADS AND SWAPS
SPREAD
The spread is the difference between the bid and ask prices and typically
constitutes the broker’s or financial institution’s profit on a transaction. The
size of the spread is normally a measure of the volatility of a given market,
but some brokers also offer fixed spreads. Most often spreads are widened
at the moment of a news release, when higher volatility is expected.
For example, if you want to exchange euros into dollars (selling euros
and buying dollars), you will receive $1.2825 for each euro sold. Inversely,
when you buy euros, you will have to pay $1.2827 each, assuming that the
value of the spread at that moment is 2 points.
SWAP
The swap, also called the overnight or rollover interest, is the fee that is
charged by the banks at the end of a 24-hour trading day on open positions
and is calculated according to the respective interest rates of the currencies
involved. In the FOREX, banks have determined that all trades must be set-
tled within two business days. Traders who desire to keep their positions

34 FOREXTRADINGSECRETS
open must “close” the positions before 5 p.m. Eastern Time (ET) on the
settlement day and reopen them at the start of the next trading day. This
rolls over the settlement by another two trading days. This strategy is
created through a swap agreement, and depending on the position’s direc-
tion and the interest rates of the currencies; it will generate a positive or
negative amount.
The trader is in fact borrowing money to sell one currency and pur-
chasing the other, so the trader pays interest on the borrowed currency and
earns on the purchased currency, the rollover interest being the net result of
the different rate calculations.
Although the interest rate for each currency is identical, swap rates
may vary from broker to broker. Some have fixed rates on long and short
positions until a rate change issued by the central banks, whereas others
may vary the rates every day depending on the liquidity and volume of
transactions.
To be able to calculate a swap for a given currency pair, you need the
short-term interest rates of both currencies, the actual price or exchange rate
of the currency pair, and the amount of lots purchased. For example, let’s
assume that a trader has an open position of 10,000 units long of EUR/USD.
This is the number of euro units that he or she owns. The actual exchange rate
is 1.2825 bid/1.2827 ask, the short-term interest rate paid on the euro pur-
chase (base currency) is 2.35 percent, and the interest rate on the U.S. dollar
short (the quoted currency) is 0.15 percent. In this case, the rollover interest
earned would be [10,000 (cid:3)(2.35%(cid:4)0.15%)]/(365(cid:3)1.2825)(cid:2)$0.47.
On an inverse position (i.e., short EUR/USD), the interest paid with a
short-term interest rate on short EUR of 1.85 percent and a short-term
interest rate on long USD of 1.25 percent would be [10,000 (cid:3) (1.25% (cid:4)
1.85%)]/(365(cid:3)1.2827)(cid:2)(cid:4)$0.13.
The interest is earned on the currency that is owned (long side) and
paid on the currency that is being borrowed (short side).
TECHNICAL VERSUS FUNDAMENTAL
There are two types of analysis that can be applied to FOREX trading—
fundamental and technical—and traditionally they are thought of as
“opposed” views. There has always been a controversy about which one is
better or which one is the “truest” one. The truth is that both are an impor-
tant gauge and a reflection of the markets. Each one has its own methodol-
ogy and rules.

CHAPTER3 ANYONECANLEARNTHEFOREX 35
I will be discussing each one in detail in Parts 4 and 5 of this book, but
I want to give you a summary here that will help you to integrate both views
into your basic trading skills.
FUNDAMENTAL ANALYSIS
Fundamental analysis helps you to understand the macroeconomic indi-
cators and political decisions of every government. It provides you with
an indication of the economic situation in a given country that results
from political decisions that quite possibly have an effect on currency
value. When a trader studies the global economic environment and the
political situation of the day, he or she will be able to develop a percep-
tion of the world situation and its influence on the various markets
involved. Unlike technical analysis, fundamental analysis focuses on the
causeand not the effect.
TECHNICAL ANALYSIS
Technical analysisis used to interpret price charts. You can see what is hap-
pening in real time and react instantly. You also can study past prices and
volumes and, based on that information, make projections of the probable
levels to be attained.
With several technical analysis tools, you can identify trends and pat-
terns that reflect the buy and sell operations being made by all market
participants at any given moment. Those trends and patterns can be seen
on short, medium, and longer time frames, allowing the study of recur-
ring patterns or particular conditions that are related to specific economic
situations.
You must be able to understand and apply both types of analysis because
the best-studied technical strategy based on past action can go horribly
wrong if fundamental events are not part of the equation.

This page intentionally left blank

4
C H A P T E R
PREPARING YOURSELF
ADEQUATELY BEFORE
JUMPING INTO
THE MARKET
FOREX TRADING ACCOUNTS
Most brokers offer a wide array of trading accounts and different platforms.
In almost every one of them, you will find a demo or practice account that
will allow you to get acquainted with their platform’s particular character-
istics and implement your strategies in a safe environment without the risk
of losing any of your funds until you are totally confident about the
mechanics involved.
Real-money accounts are diversified to allow traders of any skill level
and capitalization to start their trading career in the measure of their capa-
bilities. The smallest trading accounts you can find are the micro- or mini
accounts, where the starting capital required is usually very small (ranging
from $25 to $500) and where there are certain limitations as to the number
of lots traded. Almost all brokers offer a very high leverage on those starter
accounts, which ranges from 100:1 to as much as 500:1.
37

38 FOREXTRADINGSECRETS
In mini- or micro accounts, you can trade mini lots, which represent as
little as 1/10 of a standard lot ($10,000) or 0.1 lot, with a small margin
requirement, yielding $1 per pip. Some brokers even allow trading of
microlots, which are 1/100 of a standard lot or 0.01 lot, at a value of 10
cents per pip or nanolots ($100), which represent a value of approximately
1 cent per pip.
Among standard accounts, some brokers allow only regular full standard
lots ($100,000), whereas others add the option of trading fractional or mini
lots. The initial capital requirement for standard or professional accounts is
much higher, ranging from $2000 to $50,000 and more, with different levels
in between, as well as added benefits or limitations, particularly with respect
to leverage, which is usually not higher than 100:1.
CHOOSING A BROKER
Finding the most appropriate broker is a task that shouldn’t be overlooked
because it can make all the difference between your success or failure in the
FOREX market. Speed of execution is paramount, but also honesty and
transparency have to be considered. Demo accounts are good for practicing
and acquiring trading skills, but they won’t allow you to gauge their per-
formance and attitude in real life. The actual features come onto the scene
only after you open a real-money account.
I always say paper trade, paper trade, paper trade. You simply have to be
getting consistent results with your paper trading (demo trading) before
you can start using real money. Most investors, especially first-time traders
(“newbies”), tend to trade well on a demo and then lose it when they shift
over to a real or live account. Why is this? Simple. I have heard it all too
many times: “James, I made 20 plus trades without a looser. When I shifted
to a real account, I felt like every trade I made went against me.” Then I fol-
low by saying, “Aren’t you doing the same thing” I usually hear: “Well, I
couldn’t do the exact same thing. It is realmoney.” Therein lies the differ-
ence in results. Paper trading is part of the learning process. Once you have
mastered it, then you can move on to a real account.
Some traders will pick this up faster than others; it could take you a few
weeks, months, or even years. That’s right, it could take you some time
before you are ready to trade real money. If you want to see the true success
of the FOREX market, you have to put some time in.
With the advent of the micro account, I have found that opening an
account with $25 to $150 is actually better than demo trading because you

CHAPTER4 PREPARINGYOURSELFADEQUATELYBEFOREJUMPINGINTOTHEMARKET 39
are now learning with real money, and you are developing good trading
habits. Regardless of what you do, make sure that you practice your trading
plan prior to trading any large accounts with real money.
Not every broker is suited for every trading strategy. Thus it is quite dif-
ficult to choose the best FOREX broker for you. Some strategies, such as
scalping, will require extremely low spreads and swiftness of execution; for
other, longer-term strategies that involve overnight interest, swap will be a
major concern. Evaluation of the trading-platform software before making
a decision is important because there are significant differences among
them, and some might perform better than others, as well as offering dif-
ferent features, such as hedging capabilities on some of them and one-can-
cels-the-other (OCO) orders and if-then options on others. However, this is
only the means to access the broker’s services, which in reality is the most
important part and what has to be assessed in detail before you trust any
broker with your hard-earned money.
With the most recent FOREX oversight initiatives enacted within the
farm bill, changes are coming. As of this writing, not all the anticipated
changes have been implemented across the board. I would suggest that you
stay informed. The best way that I can help to keep you informed is to pro-
vide real-time updates and valuable FOREX information at your fingertips
through my Web site, www.JamesDicks.com.
It is easy to check a broker’s reputation over the Internet and, more
particularly, to see if the broker is regulated or not at least in its country
of origin. A good broker should comply with a few minimum basic
requirements.
REGULATION,REPUTATION,AND SIZE
Although the FOREX market is not regulated, because there is no central
exchange, individual brokers have to operate under a set of regulations
defined by every country’s own financial regulatory bodies. For example,
in the United States, a broker should appear as registered with the Com-
modity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) as a futures commission mer-
chant (FCM) and as a member of the National Futures Association (NFA).
The status of a broker can be verified directly with those organizations;
additionally, a broker should be showing a clean record with them. Some
brokers, especially offshore brokers, don’t possess any kind of financial
regulation, so they represent a risk in dealing with your money because
they could disappear and leave you with no legal recourse. Brokers in the
United Kingdom are regulated by the Financial Services Authority (FSA).

40 FOREXTRADINGSECRETS
You should check carefully the kinds of regulatory bodies with which the
broker claims to be registered and verify if indeed it is a real financial reg-
ulatory institution or simply a business generic registration.
Currently, several U.S. FCMs allow you to choose if you would like to
open an account in the United States or overseas, most specifically in the
United Kingdom, which has good oversight as well.
The reason for doing this is that with the most recent changes, some
traders are electing to go overseas so that they can continue to trade the way
they want. One example of this is that in the United States, you can no
longer hedge your trades in the same account. Thus traders who like to use
hedging—a strategy that requires you to go long one currency and go short
the same currency at the same time—now will have to use multiple
accounts or go offshore.
If your broker is affiliated with any of the important exchanges, this
adds a significant qualification because it implies that the broker is larger
in size and thus has more representation on the markets, and it vouches for
longer-term expectations for its business life. Check, for example, for any
membership at the Chicago Board of Trade, the London Metal Exchange,
the New York Mercantile Exchange, or other commodity exchanges. Size
and years in business are extremely important because they further guaran-
tee that there will be less of a chance that the broker falls into bankruptcy,
unlike a broker that is new and barely starting its activities. Having a large
number of customers and a bigger capitalization testifies to the broker’s
level of responsibility and commitment.
The reputation of a FOREX broker can be easily checked on Internet
by adding the word review, scam,orproblemsto the broker’s name in your
favorite search engine. Read the opinions of other traders on forums and
trading communities; do thorough research before entrusting your money
to any broker. You must have a great deal of confidence in your broker, and
this confidence has to be backed up by real facts, not just the advertising
hype (smoke and mirrors). Use a practice account for a while, prepare some
basic questions, and ask the broker’s customer-support team to gauge the
broker’s credibility and responsiveness.
I highly recommend that you deal only with certified brokerage firms.
Check the possible connection to banks or financial institutions. Although
there are not many brokers who will disclose the names of all their liquid-
ity providers, investigate these relationships further. FOREX transactions
are mostly based on credit, and therefore, this is a very important element
in your research.

CHAPTER4 PREPARINGYOURSELFADEQUATELYBEFOREJUMPINGINTOTHEMARKET 41
GUARANTEE OF PRICES AND FILLS
Quotes on currency pairs should be guaranteed, as well as the fills on
your stop-loss and limit orders. This is usually expressed as a “no slippage”
policy, where the price offered should be the same as that at which your
market or pending order will be transacted on entry as well as on exit. If
there are no clear rules on this subject, keep searching further. A good bro-
ker should have enough financial strength to meet these requirements and
guarantee the quoted prices, at least in normal market conditions.
HONESTY
How does your broker control prices? Are there blatant differences with
other price feeds in the industry? A dishonest broker can take advantage by
delaying entries and manipulating the price feed, showing a different price
or constantly requoting, slipping, and spiking prices.
LOCATION
Where is your broker located? If it is an offshore FOREX broker, is there
any kind of regulatory institution where it is duly registered and acknowl-
edged? If not, how can you obtain a guarantee on your funds should the
broker file for bankruptcy? You might obtain some advantages with an off-
shore business with respect to taxes, but check first to see if it is really
worth the risk.
MINIMUM INITIAL DEPOSIT
It is usually safer to go with a broker that asks a low deposit for starter
accounts. Asking for higher amounts from the start, especially in the case
of retail brokers, can be a red flag. You should look for a broker that asks
for a small initial requirement, usually around $200 to $500, which is
designed for new traders to test the markets with a real account without
putting too much money on the line.
INTRODUCING BROKERS
As you start looking around for brokers, you will find numerous (actually,
lots) of introducing brokers (IBs). Most of an FCM’s business comes
from referrals, IBs spreading the word and introducing the customer to
an FCM. With the farm bill of October 2008, more oversight has been
placed on these IBs. Now, IBs must be registered with the NFA and have
sufficient net capital as set forth by the NFA. This adds a level of protection
to the consumer.

42 FOREXTRADINGSECRETS
It is perfectly okay to use an IB; just do your due diligence. My regis-
tered IB is www.XpressFX.com. One of the benefits I have always dis-
cussed with my customers is that when using an IB, make sure that it is able
to assist in all your FOREX needs. For example, I have introduced more
traders to the retail FOREX market than any other person in the United
States. Because of this fact, I am able to assist my customers with much
more authority and resolve than any of my fellow IBs. When a customer
calls me, I can get the FCM on the phone right then and there and help
my customer get a resolution. The reason for this is that I simply have so
many customers that the FCM must listen to me. My goal is the longevity
of my customer, and I know that I will not remain in business if I can’t pro-
vide the service my customers deserve. Thus, when you are searching for a
broker, an FCM, or an IB, just be on the lookout for that personal touch that
is so hard to find these days.
CUSTOMER SERVICE
Good customer service is very important, especially when problems arise.
A broker should treat all its customers with the same level of profession-
alism and courtesy and be swift at providing orientation on complicated
matters and questions that could arise when markets are very volatile or
should a technical problem occur with the price feeds or connection to the
platform’s server. Since FOREX trading hours are continuous from Sun-
day to Friday afternoon, the broker’s customer service should be available
during the same time span, 24 hours a day, 5 days a week. IBs often will
piggyback the customer service of their FCMs when it comes to specific
trade questions. If you have any question about your closed or stopped-out
orders, you need to be able to receive a fast response independent of the
time of the day.
Some brokers offer an online chat support service; others have only a
phone-based support desk. Make a list of sensible questions, and take note
of the attitude and knowledge the support staff show when they answer.
They always should be courteous and eager to help and have appropriate
knowledge of common matters that arise in day-to-day transactions and
events. If you don’t feel totally comfortable with their answers or perceive
any doubtful behavior, keep looking elsewhere.
SPREADS AND SWAPS
FOREX overnight swap rates should be publicly available, either on the
broker’s Web site or via the trading platform. Some have fixed swaps;

CHAPTER4 PREPARINGYOURSELFADEQUATELYBEFOREJUMPINGINTOTHEMARKET 43
others vary slightly every day depending on price fluctuations and number
of transactions. Check for any excessive difference with regard to the usual
calculation of overnight interest.
The spread is the amount of money a broker makes on every transac-
tion its customers perform. If the difference between the bid and offer
prices is low, the broker’s service is cheaper, and the profit value will be
higher. It is always better to choose a broker with lower spreads.
I always like to say that you get what you pay for. Keep in mind
that just because you get the tightest lowest spreads in the industry doesn’t
that mean you are not paying somewhere else. IBs and FCMs are in busi-
ness to make money—profit is not a dirty word—but everyone has to
make money or it is not a good opportunity. You will just have to use good
due diligence or a referral to find the best place to trade. I go to great
lengths to make sure that the FCMs to which I refer customers from
www.XpressFX.comare the best.
Also keep in mind that some brokers, in order to provide the tightest
spreads, are now charging commissions—a fee to get in and a fee to get
out—similar to the equities markets. IBs are usually paid a fee for the cus-
tomers they introduce to the FCM. This will have no impact on you as a
trader unless otherwise stated. IBs get paid out of the spread, so if you use
an FCM that has a too-wide spread on the EUR/USD, that spread is too
wide whether you use an IB or not; you just get an extra layer of customer
support for the same 2-pip spread. Again, in some cases (which have to be
disclosed), an FCM actually may increase the spread to compensate the IB
for its referral. I do not allow this to be part of my IB; just check the spreads
yourself or ask.
MARGIN-REQUIREMENT RULES
Examine your broker’s margin requirements and margin-call rules care-
fully. At what level will your position be liquidated should the price take a
plunge or rise against your direction’Some brokers will close all positions
without warning, whereas others will issue some notification that the
account is near the limit they have set.
LEVERAGE LEVEL
The leverage levels can vary a lot from one broker to another, but they are
usually in a range from 50:1 to 500:1. A higher leverage can be somewhat
risky but can give you more opportunities to obtain a bigger profit. A small
initial capital investment will require a higher leverage. (Take note that

44 FOREXTRADINGSECRETS
with leverage comes risk, but with risk comes reward and, of course, the
potential for loss.)
TRADING PLATFORM
You can find a wide array of trading software among brokers, from simple
Web-based platforms to more complex applications that have to be down-
loaded. You also will find mobile platforms that give you the opportunity
to trade or monitor your positions while you are on the go. Practically all
brokers offer practice accounts that are an exact replica of the live trading
platform so that you can familiarize yourself with the interface and test
its features.
The platform should be professional-looking and easy to understand and
operate. Not all of them have the same tools available, but a good FOREX
broker should have at least charts that update in real time, technical analysis
tools, and alerting capability. Some of them also include news feeds.
When I first started trading, I used one of the most complicated trading
platforms known to humankind, or so I thought. I set out to develop an
easy-to-use trading platform based on simple-to-use technical indicators
with color-coded graphics. Today, the platform has many variations and
includes advanced charting capabilities. I refer to it more as a learning
environment than as a software platform because it has education and train-
ing integrated into it. The platform will take a beginning trader and walk
him or her right through the various steps to becoming a professional cur-
rency trader. There are numerous FCMs out there that are currently using
my technology, and there are more every day. You can find out more or
download a free trial at www.JamesDicks.com.
CURRENCY PAIRS
A good broker will offer a good variety of instruments to choose from and
will provide the currency pairs that interest you the most. A good broker
also will have other types of instruments, such as metals, indexes, or com-
modities, as well as certain exotic currency pairs, which will allow you to
widen your options and build a more diversified portfolio.
AUTOMATION CAPABILITIES
Some trading platforms allow users to run automated trading strategies
through an external application programming interface (API) or with its
functions integrated directly from inside the software. If you are interested
in this trading style, you should look for a broker that offers automation
capabilities that are easy to implement.

CHAPTER4 PREPARINGYOURSELFADEQUATELYBEFOREJUMPINGINTOTHEMARKET 45
In addition to the basic requirements that you will have to go through
and examine, you also need to know that there are two major types of
FOREX brokers: the retail brokers or market makers and the electronic
communications networks (ECNs).
I have developed a code premiere advisor language (PAL); this allows
me to integrate automated trading strategies into my trading platform,
including the ability of the customer to write his or her own automatic strat-
egy or transfer one that may have been running on another system. The wave
of the future surely will be automated/program trading. The big institutors
have used this type of trading for many years, and now you have the same
capabilities. You can find all sorts of trade robots out there, but I haven’t
found any with adequate support yet.
MARKET MAKERS
Market makers have a dealing desk. The broker usually acts as a counter-
part for almost every transaction made by traders. Brokers hedge their
own risk by opening trades in the opposite direction for the same amount.
Very few orders are sent to their liquidity providers because most of the
trades they handle are under the minimum standard lot requirement from
the banks. Bigger positions can be hedged in-house, transferred to
another associated market maker, or transacted directly with the liquidity
provider through pooling of funds and opening a position directly with
the bank. Orders are matched or covered one with another; for example,
if one trader is selling and another is buying the same currency pair,
any difference in quantities is assumed by the broker. This often leads
to conflicts of interest: When the trader wins, the broker can lose, and
vice versa. To protect themselves, some brokers widen the spreads, use
slippage, or even ‘disconnect’the trading server during heavy volatility
caused by economic news.
Because of program trading and more retail customers in the FOREX
market, most FCMs have found it difficult at best to trade against their cus-
tomers. What they know, and what you are seeing, is that if a customer sees
his or her FCM playing any of these sorts of games (i.e., wide spreads, off
quotes, etc.), he or she simply will leave and go to a new FCM. Thus the
FCMs are off-laying their trades directly to the Interbank, the source of the
trillions of dollars of turnover. This allows the FCM to focus on proving the
best possible trading environment, one with a lot fewer conflicts of interest.
The Interbank market is so big that it is less likely to be concerned with the
average retail trader making money because the amount is so insignificant
in the face of total daily turnover.

46 FOREXTRADINGSECRETS
You still will have FCMs managing their books as I mentioned earlier.
If you and I took opposite positions on the EUR/USD, the FCM would have
a balanced book, and one of us would lose and one of us would make
money. The broker makes the spread on both sides. This is an ideal situa-
tion for the broker and certainly an acceptable business practice. However,
what happens if we both go long the EUR? Then the broker has a unbal-
anced book. Three things will happen: Either the broker will hold the trade
and thus trade against the customer, or it will go out into the marketplace to
offset the position either in full or at a percentage to minimize its risk, or it
simply will offload the transaction directly to the Interbank. The goal is to
have as many customers as possible so that the broker has a better chance
of having a balance book and making the spread on both sides. There is
nothing wrong with the FCM making money as long as you understand the
process and don’t get manipulated along the way. Education and knowl-
edge are the keys to success. I am happy that you are reading this book and
have put your trust in me to help fill that FOREX knowledge you need to
achieve success as a FOREX trader.
ECNS
ECN-type brokers do not have a dealing desk. The broker serves as an
intermediary to connect traders with the banks but does not take the trades
itself. Such brokers usually charge a commission on every transaction
because they do not profit from hidden charges on the spreads. They also
do not manipulate spreads and prices, those being the quotes received
directly through the Interbank. The spreads are usually lower than those of
market makers, and this is an advantage for scalping strategies. However,
the spreads are not fixed and can experience huge variations during volatile
conditions. An ECN environment is conducted according to real market
prices, and such prices can be moving very fast based on the availability of
buyers and sellers. There is no price guarantee. However, you have the
advantage of being able to see the real market with total transparency and
actual quotes and volume of transactions being made. ECN operation is
most like the banks at Level II, but the ECN is still functioning as an inter-
mediary. Additionally, you probably will need a higher capitalization for
ECN trading because most ECNs allow only full-lot transactions and offer
a lower leverage than retail brokers.
On the NASDAQ, when a trader places an order to buy or sell stock
they are placed through many different market makers and other market
participants. Level II is a more detailed look into who has what interest in
a particular stock. Level II will show you the best bid and ask prices giving

CHAPTER4 PREPARINGYOURSELFADEQUATELYBEFOREJUMPINGINTOTHEMARKET 47
you detailed insight into the price action of the stock. For day traders know-
ing exactly who has an interest in a stock can be extremely useful.
TOOLS
SAFETY REQUIREMENTS FOR ELECTRONIC TRADING
Although it is possible to deal in the FOREX through a dial-up connection,
it is recommended that you have a fast digital subscriber line (DSL) or
cable setup, especially if the platform you will be using requires continuous
reception and update of data feed. If you are a long-term trader who checks
the charts only occasionally and who operates mostly with pending limit or
stop orders, this will not be a high priority, but a scalper, for example, will
need a stable Internet flow and a fairly huge bandwidth, which will allow a
fast connection to and from the broker’s server. The computer itself doesn’t
have to possess the ultimate high-tech gadgets, but it should be in optimal
condition and properly maintained periodically.
A second alternative connection should be considered in case the main
one fails. It is good practice to have more than one avenue with which to
access your open positions in the eventuality of an Internet failure or even
a power outage, especially if your broker doesn’t offer phone access.
Mobile access is a good option, although not every company offers that
possibility yet. You could combine your DSL connection with a dial-up,
wireless, cable, or mobile backup. Having a power generator or uninter-
ruptible power supplies (UPS) is a must if you live in an area where there
are frequent electricity outages.
Finally, all the usual safety requirements concerning protection of your
data, such as virus protection, anti–key loggers, firewalls, etc., should be set
up before installing the software and logging on to your real-money account.
USING MULTIPLE MONITORS
Is it really necessary to use more than one monitor to become a successful
trader? This will depend on your own trading style and other professional
needs.
Having multiple monitors (at least two) seems to be a must in today’s
busy computer world, where multitasking is pretty much a common prac-
tice—one screen for the main program with which you are working and
another one for miscellaneous activities such as chatting, watching videos,
listening to music, or accomplishing any other task you need or desire to
perform simultaneously.

48 FOREXTRADINGSECRETS
In FOREX trading, having multiple monitors can be very useful in that
you can watch several currency pairs at the same time or maybe just several
time frames of the same currency pair without having to minimize the
charts so that they all fit on the screens, watch the news, follow up your
favorite trading group seminar or live trading conference, or simply use
your other programs and Web browser. However, you should carefully
decide whether multiple monitors really represent a positive addition or if,
instead, the avalanche of available information is a distraction that hinders
your ability to focus completely on what you intend to do.
The use of multiple trading terminals, for a very active trader, can jus-
tify the acquisition of an additional screen, especially when the trading
platform on which you place your trades is different from your charting
application. Having two or even three monitors allows you to see the charts
in a more comfortable way with less eye strain. But how many is too many?
Professional traders usually recommend focusing on one or at best two
currency pairs. It is really useful to you to be permanently scanning each
and every market available in the expectation of the perfect setup? Most
often one of the reasons some traders need more monitors is because the
charts the use are overcrowded with too many indicators, so they have to
watch them full screen to see all the details. Does a bigger size make the
charts more readable, though? Before you run to the store and buy an addi-
tional screen for your equipment, you really should determine if all the
indicators that you intend to use are absolutely essential to your strategy
and trading style. Do you manage several accounts at the same time?
I use a laptop just about everywhere I go; at home, it is the only thing
I use. I actually place trades and follow numerous currency pairs from my
laptop. In addition, I have paid subscribers to my FOREX alert service,
and I both monitor multiple currency pairs and delivery timely trade alerts
from my laptop. So you don’t need a lot of monitors or equipment to trade
the FOREX. However, on the other side, at my office, my FOREX strate-
gist and FOREX traders use lots of screens. In fact, I think one of them has
at least 12 or more screens just for himself. This is a little overboard, if you
ask me, but whatever works, I say. I do like using a multiple-monitor sys-
tem when I am at the office because it allows me to see a lot of things
going on at one time, but it is not a requirement to be successful in the
FOREX market.
THE APPROPRIATE TRADING ENVIRONMENT
FOREX is a business, and it should be treated as such when you are choos-
ing the location from which you will be opening and monitoring your

CHAPTER4 PREPARINGYOURSELFADEQUATELYBEFOREJUMPINGINTOTHEMARKET 49
positions. Although working from home may be more comfortable and
allow more freedom, it also makes it a little more difficult to separate
normal family activities from your business, and this could lead to unfor-
tunate interruptions that could damage your trading results.
Your home office should be laid out carefully and professionally
because you probably will spend several hours a day in it. Thus the furni-
ture and layout have to be practical and, above all, comfortable. Take the
time to build your perfect workspace; it will have a direct and positive
influence on your overall mood and attitude at the moment you decide to
step into the FOREX market.
WHO TRADES THE FOREX?
The market nowadays has changed from what it was in earlier years, with
technological development and the ability to conduct transactions overseas
with more ease; other financial/nonfinancial institutions are able to partic-
ipate in the FOREX market as well as individual investors and traders.
More than 80 percent of the FOREX market’s overall daily activity
comes from speculation, where transactions occur in a wide range from
commercial banks to individual traders. The main players that take part in
the FOREX market are central banks, individual banks, commercial com-
panies, individual investors, brokers, and traders who jointly interact in the
FOREX market to profit from price fluctuations in exchange rates of cur-
rencies by means of buying and selling currency pairs as a speculative
activity. Another reason to enter the FOREX market is to hedge other
investments, such as the trading of goods and services. Finally, a few
traders look to profit on the overnight rollover amounts that are generated
by differences in each currency’s interest rates.
Commercial banks perform large transactions daily for their own ben-
efit and also act as intermediaries for their customers. Central banks par-
ticipate as controllers of the money supply of the respective country, with
the aim to help the economy achieve its goals. For example, central banks
can operate in the markets to restore the price stability of the exchange rate,
protect certain price levels, or when specific economic goals need to be
achieved, such as the control of inflation or growth.
Some of the most important central banks are the U.S. central bank (the
Federal Reserve, the Fed), the Bank of Japan, the Bank of England, the
Bank of Canada, the Swiss National Bank, the European Central Bank, and
the Reserve Bank of Australia.

50 FOREXTRADINGSECRETS
Commercial companies can participate in the FOREX market for spec-
ulation; to address the need to exchange foreign currencies in their export,
import, and touristic activities; and also to be able to hedge their exposure
if the home currency is seen as depreciating, avoiding in this way the
effects that price fluctuations could have on company stability.
Specific types of commercial companies are represented by investment
funds or hedge funds, which include all kinds of retirement, arbitrage, and
mutual funds, as well as international investments. These firms hedge and
protect one investment with another and have been entering more and more
into the FOREX scene.
Brokers are intermediaries who allow buyers and sellers of foreign
currency to interact. They obtain their profits through the spread between
the bid and ask prices. As discussed earlier, there are two types of brokers:
market makers and ECNs.
Finally, traders can be individuals or small groups that perform specula-
tive and investment operations for their own account or as money managers
for third persons.
WHAT KIND OF TRADER AM I?
Before starting to put your own real money at risk, it is a good idea to
observe yourself and your usual living conditions, as well as your person-
ality, and try several different trading techniques to see which of them will
suit you the most. Do you have a lot of free time to dedicate to your trades,
or instead, do you already have a busy schedule, maybe a full-time job or
career studies? How much risk capital, which you do not need for a living,
can you afford to set apart for your FOREX activities? Ask yourself: Am I
a patient or impatient person? Can I perform under stress, or do I have a
short attention span?
Another area to consider is your trading strategy itself. Are you more
inclined toward fundamentals and economics? Or, on the contrary, is tech-
nical analysis more appealing to your mind structure? Would you prefer to
use a mechanical system or a discretionary approach?
With all this in mind, you can develop a preliminary idea that will allow
you to start by choosing a few strategies among the hundreds of systems
that already exist and testing the waters on a practice account, comparing
the different time frames and how you feel in each and every circumstance,
besides checking the system’s own performance and results. Maybe then
you will want to develop a system of your own with the skills that you have
acquired through observation of the markets from several points of view.

CHAPTER4 PREPARINGYOURSELFADEQUATELYBEFOREJUMPINGINTOTHEMARKET 51
TRADING TECHNIQUES
Trading techniques can be divided in two general groups: long term and
short term. Below I will provide a summary of some of the advantages and
disadvantages of those two basic groups before I give a more detailed
description of each of the components they include.
Inlong-term trading,traders base their analysis on end-of-day data and
look to hold trades for a few weeks or even up to many months. They usu-
ally follow the trend. The advantages of long-term trading are that there is
no need to watch the markets intraday and that traders perform much fewer
transactions, thus lowering any commission costs. In addition, there is no
need for using fancy equipment or software because the time spent analyz-
ing and watching the markets is very short.
However, long-term traders will need to set much larger stops and will
experience large equity swings. Thus they will need to be well capitalized
and prepared for this eventuality. Trades are very few, and exceptional
trades are fewer. Much patience is needed to wait for a trend to develop to
its full potential. Losing months can be frequent.
In short-term trading traders will depend on the analysis of intraday
data and aim to hold their positions for a few days or up to one or two
weeks. Short-term traders usually perform swing trading. A shorter-term
trading approach is referred to as day trading,where trader try to take small
profits from intraday swings, exiting all positions before or at the daily
market close. The advantages of short-term trading are that there are much
more opportunities for trades, thus also less chance of experience losing
months, and that traders do not have to rely on one or two trades a year to
make money. With day trading in particular, since positions are closed
daily, there is absolutely no overnight risk.
On the negative side, the cost of their transactions will be higher in short-
term trading (traders will be paying more spread). Swing traders also incur in
overnight risk. Day traders have to confront more difficulties psychologically
because of the frequency of trading and having to monitor the markets con-
stantly. The need to exit positions at the end of the day will limit their profits.
SCALPING
The main idea behind the scalping strategy in FOREX trading is to take
very small profits very quickly from very small movements of price, such
as 2 to 10 pips. The trades normally are entered and exited within minutes
or even seconds. Small profits add up because the number of daily trades
can be very high, ranging from 20 to 100 trades on average.

52 FOREXTRADINGSECRETS
Scalping is considered to be a risky trading style. However, this will
depend on which times of the day and which types of markets are used.
Although it is possible to scalp successfully in trending conditions, the best
trading times are when the market is ranging inside consolidation patterns.
Most of the time, this is so; thus there are plenty of times to choose from to
implement this strategy. High volatility or news releases are not recom-
mended because of a higher risk involved.
The strategy has to be very well determined in advance, as for any trad-
ing system, especially in terms of risk management. A fast reaction and
decision time is paramount, getting out of bad trades as soon as possible
with low pip losses. Since the trader will be taking many more trades
throughout the session, it is better to take profits as they present them-
selves, small pips here and there, not aiming for more because the strategy
is to sum up the overall quantity of trades. Scalping is usually performed on
very short time frames; thus the average range available is also very small,
and one shouldn’t expect more than 5 to 10 pips on average.
INTRADAY TRADING
Intraday or day trading is a technique that requires all positions to be closed
at the end of each day. The number of trades is much lower than in scalp-
ing, and although very short time frames can be used to pinpoint better
entries, trades are usually analyzed and performed over short- and medium-
term time frames, such as 1-hour or 30-minute charts, with 5 or 15 minutes
for entries. Traders can use a variety of technical analysis tools and wait for
the appropriate signal or opportunity to open a position. If there is no good
opportunity, they can stay on the sidelines and wait for a better chance the
next day.
POSITION TRADING
The position- trading technique is a strategy in which you increase your
position size incrementally as the trade evolves, maintaining the same ini-
tial level of risk. It is also called averaging into a position;the trader adds
a new position of the same size and in the same direction every time the risk
of the previous one can be covered.
For example, you could buy 0.1 lot of EUR/USD at 1.2550 and set the
stop loss at 1.2500. Your risk would be of $50. When the price goes up,
you buy a second mini lot at 1.2600 with a stop loss at 1.2550, setting the
stop of the first position at breakeven (1.2550). You now will have two
mini lots while maintaining your overall risk at $50. If the price keeps on
rising, you can buy a third 0.1 position at 1.2650, setting the stop loss at

CHAPTER4 PREPARINGYOURSELFADEQUATELYBEFOREJUMPINGINTOTHEMARKET 53
1.2600, and trail the stop of the first two positions equally to 1.2600.
Should you be stopped out, all three mini lot trade are now at breakeven!
Should the price continue rising, you can buy a fourth mini lot at 1.2700,
setting all the stops for the positions at 1.2650, which will protect your
profits. You then buy a fifth mini lot at 1.2750, setting all the stops as pre-
viously, and your protected profit amounts to $250 ($150 (cid:5)$100(cid:5)$50,
with the fourth mini lot at breakeven and $50 risk on the last position). In
this way, you can limit your risk and exposure, which will remain the same
in the whole process, and can accumulate great benefits. This style of trad-
ing allows you to stay in the trend and is ideal to use in longer time frames
such as daily or weekly charts.
Another option that can be used is to convert a profitable day-trading
position into a long-term sequential trade as soon as enough positive points
are covered. You can go on adding to the position in the same way explained
earlier and reap the profits later on with minimal risk.
Position trading should be attempted with small position sizes and no
more than 1 or 2 percent capital risk. The advantage of this trading style is
that you do not need to monitor the market all day, only check from time to
time to adjust the stops and protect the profits already made. This strategy
is much less stressful, and you can earn more profit with very small poten-
tial losses.
SWING TRADING
Price fluctuations in large moves are also called swings.The price goes up
for a while, and then it goes back down. Swing trading is the strategy
employed by traders who ride those swings and obtain profits from them.
Swing trades usually are kept open for a few days, as long as the swing
or trend is continuing. As soon as the price seems to be reaching a top or a
bottom, the trader will enter short or long the market to profit from the
expected move.
Markets usually range most of the time around 70 to 80 percent of
the market activity being done sideways. However, those are “trends
within trends” because each side of a sideways move is a small trend in
itself and can yield many profits because the time frames used are higher
than in scalping. A swing trade usually can give around 100 or more pips
per trade.
This strategy is somewhat risky, though, because picking tops
and bottoms is not so simple to do. Sometimes, what is seen as a reversal
is only a small retracement, and the price continues rising or falling a
short time after, which will cause huge losses if it is not estimated

54 FOREXTRADINGSECRETS
carefully. The accuracy in determining if the market has reached a peak or
a trough will benefit the trader’s use of several technical analysis tools
and in evaluating the ranges that the market usually develops in the time
frame used.
A solution to this is to ride the middle of the swing, without trying to
enter at the very top or bottom. The swing will start going in one direction
and then will retrace a little, and this is the best moment for an entry.
NEWS TRADING:STRADDLE
Astraddleis the action of placing both a buy and a sell pending stop order
above and below the current price. No direction is expected, and the trader
prepares for the eventuality of a move either way. Straddles are used com-
monly in news trading and are implemented before the outcome of a news
release kicks in. All the usual elements of trading are set up in the straddle,
such as stop losses and target prices. OCO orders, where available, can be
used so that whenever one of the trades gets triggered, the other one is auto-
matically canceled.
This technique can be used on breakout expectations and in various
other ways, such as, for example, based on the cross of either side of a par-
ticular moving average. Straddling involves some maintenance because
orders that haven’t been triggered yet need to be updated periodically as
prices and conditions evolve. Besides, it is important not to leave active
pending orders behind that are not needed any more. This is a mechanical
approach that doesn’t need a great deal of analysis; the market will move
either way, and the trade will be managed accordingly when triggered.
Orders are placed in the same way and at the same time by the rules of the
chosen system, and the trader will only have to wait until any of the options
gets effectively on the market.
Straddle trading is very useful during undecided market conditions,
after long periods of consolidation, and of course, before fundamental
announcements. It is often used to trade the news because of the diffi-
culty of predicting such a move and also because entering in a highly
volatile market sometimes can be totally impossible, whereas a stop order
usually should be filled at the price chosen. However, straddles also are
very risky because both sides could be stopped out in a big swing reac-
tion, so the stops and targets have to be planned very carefully and set at
precise levels.
Straddle-based trading systems can be very appealing to traders who
don’t have much time to spend at their computers.

CHAPTER4 PREPARINGYOURSELFADEQUATELYBEFOREJUMPINGINTOTHEMARKET 55
THE TRADER’S LEVELS OF ASCENSION
In the process of becoming a professional FOREX trader, there are five lev-
els through which it has been proved that practically everyone will have to
evolve. Sometimes you might think that you have reached a higher level,
just to find yourself again at level one or two. I like to use the following as
a way to help determine where you are at a certain point in your evolution
as trader. Assume that you are on your way to my office building to work
with me as a professional currency trader. When you get to the lobby, you
find out that all the professional traders in my office are on the fifth floor.
The problem is that there is only one way to get to the fifth floor, and that
is to work your way up. Obviously, you have made your mind up that trad-
ing currency is something you want to do, and you have committed to by
investing in this book. So you decide to take the journey and start off on the
first floor.
FIRST FLOOR:YOU DON’T KNOW THAT YOU DON’T KNOW
What is the first thought that attracts people to FOREX trading? The magic
promise of making money fast and easy and being able to live a life of lux-
ury. Maybe it is only the desire to quit a boring and demanding full-time job
or to earn a little more in order to pay off all one’s debts and thereafter retire
in a more comfortable financial situation.
Prices go up, and then they go down. It seems easy. Besides, there are
a lot of success stories, real or not so real, of millionaires who got their for-
tunes through currency speculation. All the glamour and hype built around
the financial world are amazing!
Then you open your first account, probably test the waters a little on a
demo account, but what you really want is real money. Practice accounts
are most often left aside and seen as boring and useless for your immediate
purposes. You don’t even bother to understand what all those “technical
indicators” on the trading platform are for. You just need to know where to
click for buying and selling—that’s all.
So there you are, clicking away on your path to total financial freedom!
You take trade after trade, risk after risk. You probably don’t even use a stop
loss! You become overconfident and start risking greater amounts of money
to accelerate its multiplication. So simple it is! The price goes up, you buy;
the price goes down, you sell. What could go wrong? If you fail to plan,
then you have planned to fail. With this attitude and mind-set, you will
guarantee yourself failure, not just in trading the FOREX but also in life.
The good news is that all you need is a little knowledge, and with that

56 FOREXTRADINGSECRETS
knowledge, you can begin to see what all the fuss is about, for then you will
graduate and move up to the next floor.
SECOND FLOOR:YOU KNOW THAT YOU DON’T KNOW
You start opening your eyes and look around for answers that will explain to
you the reasons for your recent failures. You become aware that you need
more training and education. After all, you want to make this a full-time pro-
fessional and stop working that endless low-paying job or retire and control
your own financial destiny, one that will allow you to produce a constant
profit. You start surfing the Internet or the local book store, looking for trad-
ing formulas. You want to know more about each and every indicator that is
available on your platform, trying them all at once, transforming your charts
in a Picasso-like spaghetti mix.
Your quest for the FOREX Holy Grail has just begun! You subscribe to
a FOREX forum and jump from thread to thread, looking for the best sys-
tem that makes the greatest number of pips. If you have enough money to
spend, you believe every snake-oil peddler and buy every automated pip
machine that is advertised on the Web in the hope that next month your
account will finally be approaching the five- or six-figure mark!
Every day you happen to find a new “perfect system” that will only last
until you try the next “Can’t lose! Guaranteed!” one. You don’t have the
patience or discipline to find out if they really work because you expect
them to start producing pips per minute, and because they don’t, you keep
on your endless search. Every new indicator is “the one.”
Every new system is the Aladdin’s lamp that you will rub and rub away
in the hope that cash will start flowing like a river into your bank account.
You will chase the market, pick tops and bottoms, and draw channels,
trendlines, and Fibonacci retracements until price can’t be distinguished
any more on your charts.
Trying and failing one system after the other, frustration will accumu-
late, and anger will come into the picture. You will ask for advice but will
not listen to it because “you know better.” Overtrading, overleveraging, and
overconfidence will make you risk much more than what prudence dic-
tates. Then you’ll seek again for more signals, automated systems, and
other traders’calls until you end up exhausted and totally confused because
nothing seems to work. You will start thinking that maybe the FOREX is
not for you, and maybe you give up and quit. But don’t despair, the FOREX
is an exciting market, and many traders profit beyond their dreams. You
simply have to take the bull by the horns and get the education you need to
move up to the next floor.

CHAPTER4 PREPARINGYOURSELFADEQUATELYBEFOREJUMPINGINTOTHEMARKET 57
THIRD FLOOR:AWARENESS
All of a sudden, you start realizing that the issue might not be the system,
but you. You understand that each and every trader who is successful may
have different strategies and styles, but there must be something that con-
nects them and represents a common denominator. You can see now that
there just may be a reason all those traders on the fifth floor are driving
fancy cars and living the life they have always wanted. Now it’s your turn.
You start immersing yourself much deeper into money management
and investigate more about trading psychology, identifying the traits that
are slowly producing a global understanding of the whole picture. You
become aware that it is not possible to predict market price moves. You stop
looking outside for the answers and start finding them on the inside.
You begin developing your own personalized system and integrate all
that you have learned before, adapting your trading style to your own per-
sonality, time, and needs. You start getting positive results with the change.
Your greater accuracy in money management allows you to have a happier
attitude about losses because now you are confident that it is only a part of
the trading business.
If you get into a bad trade, you will close it and move on. You have
tested your system, and it has proven to work. You know it well, and you
stick to your plan with discipline.
It’s really on the third floor that traders figure it out. I teach lots of
classes all over the country, and my most successful traders are the ones
who travel to my offices to take their classes. Why? Because they have
made it to the third floor. They realize that it is time to invest in their
FOREX trading future. It’s not just a good trading platform; it is the educa-
tion, training, and support; it is the network of other traders with whom you
can discuss training ideas; and it’s the team that gets it.
Think for a moment: How long does a doctor, lawyer, or engineer have
to go to school to learn his or her trade? And that is just to be an entry-level
person. Think about how long a doctor has to go to school: four years for
college, four years for medical school, a few more years for specific spe-
cialty, and then, what, two years of residency, then and only then to be a
full-fledged doctor earning decent money. Well, what happens when the
doctor goes on vacation? Nothing; they don’t get paid. A currency trader
controls his or her own future; a trader can work from anywhere. Traders
can be in a trade making money while at the beach or on a golf course, fish-
ing, whatever. Butyou will only get out of this what you put into it. You will
have to find a mentor and start learning. Some of you will pick it up faster
than others, but in the end, you can make it to the next floor.

58 FOREXTRADINGSECRETS
FOURTH FLOOR:KNOWING THAT YOU KNOW
Now you’re on cruise speed. You follow your system and rules, you have
developed a trading plan, and you take losses and wins without letting emo-
tions run over you. You will get to break even most of the time, having win-
ning periods and then losing periods, but in general, most of your trades
will be good, and you will not be losing money. Gradually, your win-loss
ratio will increase consistently. You put your time in and now have a deci-
sion to make. Are you ready to quit your boring job, maybe retire early, and
take on the status of FOREX trader? You are confident that you can make
the money. The next step is yours. See you on the fifth floor.
FIFTH FLOOR:BEING A PROFESSIONAL
You made it—the secret society of professional FOREX traders. You look
around, and it is not so unfamiliar to you. You have seen some of these same
people walking around before. They are people you have passed in the hall-
ways of life, people who have made the same decision you have, people
who have decided to take charge of their financial lifestyles and do some-
thing about it. They didn’t give up on floors one and two. They kept going.
Now you find that your skills are totally integrated, and you follow
your trading routine every day on an unconscious level. You watch the
charts, and thanks to the endless hours of screen time, you now “know” and
understand how the market moves.
You start making more profitable trades, and the daily outcome doesn’t
take you out of control, whether you lose or win. Your account starts grow-
ing, your emotions are reasonably under your command, and above all, you
are at peace and can trade without stress.
You keep on refining your own trading system so that it evolves with
every market change. You keep an eye on risk and reinforce discipline.
Trading is now just like any other job, sometimes maybe a little boring, but
you have mastered all that it takes to get the profits you have planned on.
You can make money in the FOREX, and you can lose money in the
FOREX. It is not an ATM machine for which someone will send you a PIN
number so that it will start spitting cash out at you. You have to work at it.
I have traders who have been with me for many years who are very suc-
cessful. Ninety-nine percent of the traders I’ve seen who have lost money
did so because of poor discipline, no patience, and just plain greed, and they
didn’t listen to all the education, training, and support they were getting or
that was available at their fingertips. You have to go out and build your
FOREX knowledge—if not from me, then from someone else—but this is
a real market, and it is wide open for you to make of it what you will.

2
P A R T
MONEY MANAGEMENT

This page intentionally left blank

5
C H A P T E R
THE SECRET TO
MAKING MONEY
ARE YOU REALLY FIT TO TRADE IN THE FOREX MARKET?
FOREX trading is becoming more and more popular among individuals of
all walks of life. In the thoughts of many, it would seem from the outside
that it is an easy option to get easy money, quit your daily job, and start your
path to the rich and famous gallery.
However, this is not true. Although you now can start trading with a
very small amount of money, you also need to possess some basic elements
of personality and character that are paramount for a successful career as a
FOREX trader. FOREX trading should be treated as a business. It is an
investment venture. Unfortunately, most people who throw themselves in
the market without any previous preparation tend to treat it as a lucky gam-
ble and end up with an unpleasant experience.
Before attempting to start trading, especially on a live account with real
money, you should evaluate your motives and capabilities:
● Are you willing to apply yourself, and do you have some spare time to
learn and prepare yourself thoroughly?
● Are you just looking for easy money, thinking that you’ll get rich quick?
● Are you capable of following rules and discipline, leaving emotions
out of your decision-making processes?
● Are you clear about how much money you will allow yourself to
invest and how much you can afford to lose?
61

62 FOREXTRADINGSECRETS
TRADING PLANS
What is a trading plan? A trading planis a complete set of rules that have
to be defined before starting to operate in the market. It should cover every
aspect of your trading in detail.
Building a trading plan, however, is not an absolute guarantee that you
will succeed, but it has all the elements necessary to prevent things from
going wrong or bring a solution when they do, providing you with the tools
to react in the best possible way to any possible outcome.
Markets can’t be controlled, but you cancontrol yourself. With a trad-
ing plan, you are establishing control of the most important part of your
trading—the trader. The number one reason FOREX traders do not succeed
is the fact that they did not build a trading plan.
One of the benefits of a trading plan is that it simplifies your trading
because you will have a defined sequence of rules to follow one after the
other before opening a trade. You will be able to control yourself and estab-
lish a discipline, which, in turn, will help you to leave emotions out of the
picture, making it easier to monitor your trades and detect any mistakes
much faster. You can review your plan at any time should it bring about unex-
pected results, and you can check to see if you are indeed following the plan
based on the rules or if any of the elements of the plan have to be redesigned.
BUILDING THE PLAN
You should adapt your trading plan to your trading style, personality, skill
level, and availability of resources. It is important to be totally honest when
you are defining the plan, including most especially your emotional and
psychological issues.
THE COMPONENTS OF A COMPLETE SYSTEM
A complete trading system covers each of the decisions necessary for suc-
cessful trading:
Markets:What do you want to buy or sell?
Position sizing:How much do you want to buy or sell?
Risk management:How much can you afford to lose if things
go wrong?
Entries:When do you want to buy or sell? (This would include
market hours and possible news releases.)
Stops:When do you want to get out of a losing position?
Exits:When do you want to get out of a winning position?

CHAPTER5 THESECRETTOMAKINGMONEY 63
Strategy:How do you want to buy or sell?
Time frames:How much can you expect to win from a particular entry?
In addition to the general plan, you also should elaborate a more detailed
checklist to ensure that all these elements are being taken into account.
Here is an example of a trading checklist that you can use before enter-
ing a trade: Before entering a longor a shortposition:
What is the market (e.g., EUR/USD, GBP/JPY, or gold)?
Strategy:What are the main indicators and secondary indicators?
Risk areas:Are there bars or candlesticks that show risks for
your position?
Breakeven price:Where would your trade be at breakeven, with no
gain and no loss?
1. Identify the actual market position in relationship to previous activity
by checking higher time frames (daily chart).
a. Prices are not near a long-term resistance or support.
b. Prices are not in congestion.
c. Prices are not overextended.
d. Prices are not near the high or the low of the previous day.
e. Check the news and economic reports.
f. Check possible gaps on weekends and holidays.
2. Identify the candlestick or bar in which you will be entering the trade
so that you can confirm a potential future direction of the trend.
Alternatives:
a. Long(cid:2)Main trend is rising up with a downward swing on the
main indicator greater than the two previous downswings.
Short(cid:2)Main trend is falling down with an upward swing on the
main indicator greater than the two previous upswings.
b. Long(cid:2)The secondary trend is going down and comes back up in
the same direction as the main trend.
Short(cid:2)The secondary trend is going up and comes back down in
the same direction as the main trend.
c. Long(cid:2)The secondary trend is going down and comes back up in
the same direction as the slope of the moving average.
Short(cid:2)The secondary trend is going up and comes back down in
the same direction as the slope of the moving average.

64 FOREXTRADINGSECRETS
Risk management:
3. Buy entry price:
Buywhen the prices are above the high of the signal bar plus 1 tick.
Sell entry price:
Sellwhen the prices are below the low of the signal bar minus 1 tick.
4. Initial risk price:
Long(cid:2)Risk set to the swing low (minus 1 tick) of the signal bar or
of the last three or four bars depending on the time frame.
Short(cid:2)Risk set to the swing high (plus 1 tick) of the signal bar or of
the last three or four bars depending on the time frame.
Long(cid:2)Set stop to breakeven (entry price) after a range of four bars
above the entry price.
Short(cid:2)Set stop to breakeven (entry price) after a range of four bars
below the entry price.
5. Neverlet a positive trade become negative!
6. Exit strategy:Take profit.
Alternatives:
a. Using one lot (or mini- or microlot) (cid:2)Take profit at about
60 percent of the average price range.
b. Using two lots (cid:2)Take full profit in one of the lots. Trail the stops
using last short-term supports as a guide.
c. Using three lots (cid:2)Take full profit in one of the lots. Trail the
stops using last short-term supports as a guide. Keep the
remaining positions open until a reversal signal shows up or
the end of the trading session.
How many of you really plan your trades by writing all your rules on
paper with so much precision? You have to define what (entries and exits)
you are going to do, when(the signals of your strategy or system) to do it,
andhow(risk management rules and other details). If you don’t plan care-
fully and follow your own fixed rules strictly, the trades you’ll initiate will
be wrong even if their outcomes are positive, and paradoxically, if you fol-
low your rules, they will be correct even if they bring about a loss because
you will have been sticking to your plan.
Another important part of a trading plan is to keep a detailed record of
all your trades (winners andlosers): entry price, exit price, date, time, stops
and targets, indicators that you used, signals taken, etc. Why did you take
the trade? What was your emotional state at that moment? What were the

CHAPTER5 THESECRETTOMAKINGMONEY 65
environmental conditions at that moment, positive or negative? (Also
include interruptions, time of the day, physical condition, etc.)
In this way, you can easily determine the weak spots and correct them
later on, as well as reinforce the strong elements so that they can represent
a greater asset as you go further in your trading career. If you don’t do this,
you will be swinging in the hands of luck, which is the same as saying that
you will be just gambling blindly.
Before taking a trade, evaluate your skills. Have you tested your system,
and are you confident about its results? Are the signals easy to understand
and follow?
Prepare yourself psychologically. How are you feeling? Did you eat
and sleep well? Are you ready to trade?
If you are not totally focused and ready to confront the daily challenge
of the market, it is better not to trade because you will be prone to make
huge mistakes.
If you feel tired or sick or are angry, worried, or distracted by other
personal issues, you will be unable to focus and follow your discipline rule
by rule.
Define your risk level. How much money can you risk on a particular
trade? You shouldn’t risk more than 1 to 3 percent of your equity on each
single trade depending on the situation. Is the trade riskier than average, or
does it have great potential to create greater risk? When should you stop?
What is the total daily maximum risk you can allow? How many losses will
you take before you stop trading for the day?
Define your goals. Establish a realistic ratio between risk and reward,
based on your strategy and risk appetite. Clearly state which is the highest
risk and smallest reward your strategy allows after evaluating your usual
win-loss ratio. Carefully check what the potential profit expectations are
based on the time frame you will be using and the minimum stop loss
required for optimal safety. The risk should be lower than the reward
expected, although this will depend heavily on your particular system. For
example, a scalping strategy with a 90:10 win-loss ratio will allow up to a
3:1 risk ratio and still be very profitable (winning trades being one-third of
losers), whereas a system that yields fewer winners but a potential for much
longer runs would need the ratio to be inverted (usually a 1:1.5 risk ratio is
the smallest that should be allowed).
Investigate the win-loss percentage that you need to break even, and
base your calculations accordingly.
Set your goal in points and also in money to be made (or profit percent-
ages on your equity) daily, weekly, monthly, and annually.

66 FOREXTRADINGSECRETS
Evaluate the economic situation that’s going on. Check the financial
news, and be alert about economic news releases. How are the markets
doing? Check also stocks and indexes that offer a good perspective on mar-
ket mood. Wait for news release figures before placing a trade because they
usually affect the market, causing random and contradictory moves. You
should wait at least a half hour after every market open and not trade a half
hour before any market close, as well as at least an hour later than a signif-
icant economic release.
Prevent technical issues. Check that your Internet connection and com-
puter are working properly. Perform routine maintenance daily, clearing
memory and temporary folders. Be sure to have in place the utmost secu-
rity software (i.e., antivirus, antispyware and anti–key loggers) to protect
your account data. Prepare your trading charts and indicators so that all the
signals and support/resistance levels are seen clearly, and check that the
sound volume is appropriate if you use sound alerts.
Make sure that you will not be interrupted or distracted during your
trading activity either by other people (turn off the phone, TV, or radio if
needed, and close the door of your trading space) or by other activities you
could attempt to do simultaneously (no Web surfing, chatting, or even read-
ing FOREX forums while you are trading).
Have a clear set of rules for entries and exits. Except in the case of
scalping, where entering a trade also has to be very precise, exit rules are
more important than entry rules.
Set the appropriate fixed stops, or get out at the level you have planned
if you happen to be using mental stops. Don’t make the mistake of letting
losses run in the hope that the market will come back. If a trade is wrong,
take the loss, and move on. You will still be making profits if you limit
losses without looking back and manage your risk conservatively, even if
your winning trades are less than your losing ones.
Mental stops have to be written down even if you don’t place them
physically on the platform. You can set a line on the chart at that level to
help you react at the proper moment.
The same goes for target profits. You should know where to lock the
benefits and set a written target price, either on the platform or as a first
goal when using several contracts or trailing the stops thereafter. When you
get there, take a partial profit on your position, move the stops to break
even in the rest, and trail the stops using your preferred method (automated
or manual).
Know your signals and system well. Your strategy should be simple
so that you can make a fast decision and not struggle with a series of

CHAPTER5 THESECRETTOMAKINGMONEY 67
conflicting signals. Too many conditions to be met will lead to trade
paralysis.
When conditions are met, you enter the trade without any doubt or
hesitation. Since you have already tested your system and know its poten-
tial, it doesn’t matter if the trade is going to be right or wrong because you
rely on the probabilities of the strategy and thus are confident about the
overall outcome.
Track your performance. Record your winning and losing trades with
the same detail and care. Go back over past trades, and review what made
them right or wrong. Good decisions will be reinforced, bad decisions will
be analyzed, and the lessons learned will prevent you from making the
same mistakes again.
Try to write down all the details of your trades, along with any com-
ments about what led you to open those specific positions, your mood, the
time of day, other circumstances, and general prevailing conditions.
Keep track of the drawdown (not only the net drawdown, which is the
sum of all lost positions, but also the ongoing floating drawdown while
your trades are still open). Keep a trading journal in which you reference all
those details for further study.
Professional traders treat their trading activity as a business. This is
paramount if you really want to trade full time and be successful at trading
in the currency markets. You also need to know and accept that you can’t
always win, that losing trades are a necessary part of the picture in the
FOREX. It is important to let your profits run and cut your losses short,
and the accuracy of your own money management is what will bring about
success in the end.
RULES AND DISCIPLINE
You might think that it is only necessary to have a winning system in place
to succeed in the FOREX market. But are you able to follow the rules of
your system exactly, trade after trade?
A good system certainly is a positive edge in ensuring your success, but
there is another, more important element that has to be present: your disci-
pline and steadiness in executing the rules by the book without adding, chang-
ing, or omitting parts of the strategy. Tested and proven winning systems
include a series of rules as well as a series of losing and winning trades that
have to be brought to completion. Not everyone is prepared to assume such a
discipline because it requires changing some of your ingrained habits.

68 FOREXTRADINGSECRETS
ATTITUDE TOWARD LOSING
In the everyday life, losing is seen as a bad thing. In the FOREX market,
losing is part of the equation that leads to a successful result. The FOREX
is a zero-sum game, where no additional resources are created and where
someone’s loss is another trader’s win.
GROUP MENTALITY
Don’t let others influence you. In the FOREX, you are on your own and
can’t depend on the decisions of others or other people’s points of view. You
need to develop your own system, which will be based on successive expe-
riences, trial and error, until you are satisfied with the potential results. You
are the one watching the charts and feeling the market.
Don’t confuse this with being part of a network of like-minded
investors. The James Dicks FOREX Network (www.JDFN.com) is just
that—individual investors sharing ideas, strategies, and stories on the mar-
ket, individual currency pairs, etc. In the end, the trade decision is yours,
but what I have found is that discussing trades that may be setting up can
provide an added benefit when it ultimately comes time to place the trade.
Make sure that you don’t talk yourself out of a trade. Nine of 10 times
if you follow your plan and go with your gut, you will be right, even if
the trade goes against you. Moreover, you don’t have to be right all the
time. In fact, with good money management, you can be right just 34 per-
cent of the time and still make money in the FOREX. This is better than a
coin flip. Focus on your own opinion. Of course, you can compare different
approaches to the same situation, but in the end, you are the one who will
make the decision and the only one responsible for your trading.
RESPONSIBILITY
Be your own leader; make your own the rules! FOREX markets are a force
made of orderly chaos, a powerful mix of human emotions, economic cir-
cumstances, and strong financial interests. The market is always right
because it moves as it wants and when it wants and has no fixed rules by
itself. The only stable data on which to depend are your system and you, the
trader, and your ability to make the rules and to change them as many times
as necessary to adapt to ever-changing market conditions.
WORKING HARD VERSUS WORKING EFFICIENTLY
The more you work will not make a difference in your results. Unlike most
working situations, in the FOREX what counts is how efficient you can be,
not how many hours you spend in front of your charts.

CHAPTER5 THESECRETTOMAKINGMONEY 69
LETTING PROFITS RUN
Holding to a trend can be difficult if, based on the previously mentioned
attitude of expecting results proportional to the effort made, you think that
it is too easy and can’t accept huge profits. Most traders “hit and run” and
don’t have enough discipline to wait patiently for a trend to develop.
Instead, they cut their profits as soon as they appear in fear that they might
go away. I have seen this many times, and I too am guilty of. It is a difficult
attitude to overcome, but stay focused, and you will. Traders often find
themselves in a trade that is going against them and completely forget
about their trading plan. They let their emotions get the best of them, say-
ing such things as, “It will come back,” “I have a feeling about this,” and
“I will cost-average down or double my position so that I can make money
when it comes back.” This is notgood; it is the wrong state of mind. What
ends up happening is that you have a huge loss, and then, when you place
your next trade and are up a few dollars, you start saying, “I’ve got to take
money off the table now,” and thus put yourself in an upside-down money
management position, willing to risk hundreds of dollars to gain only a few.
There are some basic rules that never should be broken. First of all, you
need to have a clear objective and know what you really want to achieve.
Without a goal, it is much more difficult to obtain a result because your
efforts will lack direction and focus. Stating your goals and milestones
clearly will help you greatly in achieving success, one step at a time.
Most traders start with the sole purpose of just “making money”—as
much and as soon as possible. However, the other side of the coin has to be
planned as well, and risk has to be defined even more carefully because it
will make or break your final results. Goals also have to be realistic. Your
rules should be measurable and achievable in terms of potential returns and
time and resources available.
This is not to say that you can’t aim big, but don’t expect either to
become a millionaire by the end of the month if your available equity is only
$10,000. Aiming above your real capacities will only lead you to frustration
and failure.
I often ask my students, “How much return would you like to make on
your investment” I then follow up by saying, “Let’s be realistic. Before
there was the FOREX, what would you have been happy making on your
money in the stock market” You would be surprised; 5 to 12 percent is the
usual reply. That’s right, not an unrealistic goal. Think of it this way: The
rule of 72 says to take 72 and divide by the rate of return you would like to
earn. Thus 72 divided by 20 percent (cid:2) 3.6. This is the number of years it
would take to double your investment—3.6 years. This is a number I like to

70 FOREXTRADINGSECRETS
strive for because doubling my portfolio every 3.6 years is certainly some-
thing I can live with.
With that said, people make huge returns in the FOREX. I see it every
day. In fact, I live it as well. But be realistic. A 20 percent return means that
it takes 3.6 years to double your investment. Thus a 40 percent return means
that in 1.8 years you will double your money. What happens if you make
40 percent in one year? I would suggest that you may want to be even more
conservative with your trading for the rest of the year. If you end the year at
40 percent, you should be very happy. In fact, if you end the year up 20 per-
cent, you also should be happy. Keep that in mind when you are placing
trades and developing that realistic goal you are shooting for in terms of
return on investment, don’t get carried away trying to make 1 percent a day
or more because with risk comes reward, but so does the potential for loss.
Just think smart, and stick to your plan.
NOW YOU NEED A SYSTEM
Whether you adopt an already defined trading strategy or choose to
develop one yourself with the various technical tools at hand, you will have
to follow its rules and make sure that all the needed steps are included—
when to enter, when to exit, and what targets and stops it allows. This is
why having a mentor, someone who has already paved the way, a leader in
the field, is important. I am confident that after reading this book, you will
want to learn more, and I know I can help you by sharing with you my
FOREX journey. If not me, then make sure that you get someone to help
you along the way.
You have to be confident in your system, know all its details perfectly,
and have practiced with it enough to be certain of its probable results. The
rules have to be simple and clear, and you should have the discipline to fol-
low them to the letter. Trading impulsively and randomly, led by the flow of
your emotions, and without a precise plan will only lead to negative results.
Your system should include a solution for every situation that you
might encounter in your trading. In this way, the results you obtain from
your testing will be accurate, thus adding to your confidence and ensuring
that you will be trading with consistency in any situation that might arise.
In addition, you should have answers that address all the possible sce-
narios that can develop and have a precise action plan prepared for each of
them. If all the possible circumstances that can arise are not anticipated and
planned for, an unexpected event could cause you a huge loss. Everything
should be predictable, even the situations that you couldn’t even think
might happen.

CHAPTER5 THESECRETTOMAKINGMONEY 71
Here’s a list of some of the most basic rules:
Stay with the trend.Identify as soon as possible the main trend and its
subsequent intermediary cycles to minimize the risk for losses.
As is often said, the trend is your friend. If you are going with the
trend, any minor retracement will not affect the final result when
it comes back in your direction. If you are counter-trending, be
careful because the price can move against you and possibly never
recover as it picks up with the long-term trend. In a bullish
market, go long. In a bearish market, go short. In a sideways
market, it is better to stay on the sidelines and wait for a better
opportunity.
Buy strong, sell weak.Identify which currencies are showing more
strength and which ones are weak, and try to pair them up.
Buy low, sell high.Always try to get the best possible price both when
buying and selling. Never sell into a support level nor buy at a
resistance point.
Let your profits run, and cut your losses short.Control your fear of
losing when you are in a winning trade, and learn to develop
patience so that a trade can evolve to its full potential. Conversely,
as soon as a trade has proven to be wrong, don’t hesitate for a
second in closing it according to the rules you have defined for
your risk level. Don’t fall into the temptation of widening your
stops because last time you were stopped out the trade went back
in your direction.
Past performance is not a guarantee of future performance.Your
system might have been performing very well, and suddenly there
is a change in the market behavior. Be aware of the signs of such
a change, and adjust your system accordingly. Markets could have
been trending for a long time, and they now are consolidating
sideways. Be sure to have several strategies ready to use in each
different market condition.
Have an alternate power supply and supplementary Internet
connection, as well as the phone number of your broker’s dealing
desk, ready at hand in case you experience an unexpected power
outage, server disconnect, or general Internet failure.There are
now several options through mobile communications that allow
traders to open or close positions that could be at risk in such
an event.

72 FOREXTRADINGSECRETS
Know exactly what to do in case you are unable to trade, if you
happen to lose a certain percentage of your account, or if the
markets are closed and you need to get out of your current
positions.
Develop your patience.Not having a position is also a position. There
will be moments when the best trading approach is to stay on the
sidelines and wait patiently for a setup to develop. Never jump
into a nonplanned trade out of impatience or boredom. Wait for
pullbacks to enter if you have missed the initial entry. The market
moves in waves, and by waiting for the correction, you will have
the odds in your favor as to the necessary stops. Reaching that
rate-of-return goal does not have to be done over night. In the
FOREX, it could be reached quickly, allowing you to sit on the
sidelines the rest of the year if you choose to. Have patience.
Let your trade breathe and develop fully to its complete potential.
Inversely, be impatient and eager to close any trade that is proving
itself wrong from the beginning. Capital preservation is a must.
Don’t count and cry over missed pips.Missed money is better than
lost money. There always will be a better opportunity to enter the
market.
Add to your winning trades; never add to your losing positions.
Averaging down is down is a very risky practice that could make
you lose much more than you planned initially. Inversely, when a
trend is developing successfully, consider adding to your trade
after each small correction.
Never risk more than 5 to 10 percent of your equity total and not more
than 1 to 2 percent on a single trade.In this way, if you happen to
hit a losing streak, you still will have more than enough capital
left to take losses back to breakeven.
Avoid trading at news time and when markets open or close.Too
much random volatility can kill your account very fast. Wait for
the market sentiment to settle down, and go with the flow as
soon as the direction is clear. Trade only when conditions are at
their best.
Periodically review your past performance, and redefine your plan if
needed.Adjust your money management and position size
according to your profits or losses on equity. Evaluate your
results, and compare them with your goals. Readjust your goals if
necessary.

CHAPTER5 THESECRETTOMAKINGMONEY 73
If you experience a heavy loss, take some time off to reevaluate the
situation and clear your mind.Stop trading for a few days.
Absolutely do not trade for revenge! You shouldn’t allow yourself
to fall into the need of getting your money back as soon as
possible. Instead, examine the reasons that caused the loss,
recheck all your rules and trading plan, and take some rest to be
able to come back refreshed and with a clear focus.
Match your position properly to your account size.Risking more
than the recommended percentage can increase your gains
tremendously, and you could be tempted to do so because the
high leverages and small margin requirements of some brokers
allow you to exceed your capabilities. Remember that it works the
other way around as well: Losses can become unmanageable very
soon. Think and plan for a long-term career.
Learn to read chart patterns and price action.Draw trendlines, and
study and analyze the market’s past behavior and present trends.
Watch carefully how price reacts on supports and resistances. Try
to understand what happened at every point of the price wave.
Consider scaling out of your position when it is profitable, if its size
allows.In this way, you take some profit at an appropriate
moment and still remain in the market for the long run, should it
happen. If the trade then goes against you, at least you took some
profit at a good point.
When being extremely successful, proceed with extra caution.
Reinforce the discipline or, better, take a day off from the market.
Overconfidence can occur insidiously and you could lose in a few
hours what took you several days to build. Keep your profits, and
stay alert!
HOW THE MARKET WORKS
A market is a situation where there is an imbalance in supply and demand
between its participants that results in continuous and unpredictable fluctu-
ations in the exchange rates. What causes the market to be so unpredictable?
● Different traders interpret the same fundamental factors differently.
● The intents of various market participants are different, as well as
their reasons and purposes for conducting a transaction. Reasons
may include hedging, purchase of currency with the purposes of

74 FOREXTRADINGSECRETS
financing an international commercial project, or a bargain for a
speculative profit.
● Since the market is simultaneously influenced by the various
fundamentals and contradictory forces, the final reaction can vary,
causing fluctuations in the market, and not comply with the expected
reaction to some fundamental event or process.
In addition, even powerful financial institutions can make mistakes
because institutional traders are just people like you and me. This also adds
to the randomness of the whole picture.
RULES FOR WORKING WITH THE MARKET
Try to have no particular bias about the market’s future behavior. Follow
your own system and rules, and react to the signals the market is giving you
(trade what you see, not what you think). Examine the signals given care-
fully, and be aware of those that go against your point of view instead of
looking for signals that confirm your point of view.
Never try to predict. Listen to what the market is really telling you, here
and now. Forecasts (especially long-term ones) are useless in an unpre-
dictable and changing situation such as the FOREX market. Be here and
now, and trade what you see. The need to be right is a waste of energy and
time, which you should invest instead in focusing on real-time conditions.
Moreover, if your predictions turn out to be wrong, this would add unnec-
essary stress to your emotions.
There are no guarantees of success independent of your own past per-
formance in this or any other professional activity. Logic and common
sense will not work; for example, the same results in fundamental news can
bring about completely opposite reactions in different time spans because
there are too many details in between that exert an influence on market sen-
timent. Markets will react based on their interpretations of fundamentals
more than to any specific figure itself.
Most FOREX transactions are done as a result of international business
and commerce. The FOREX is used much less as an investment vehicle,
although there is much room also left for speculation. Commercial partici-
pants at the international level only want to produce and sell their products.
They are seldom interested in all the details about exchange rates. Banks
initially only provided the exchange rate between currencies. They bought
the foreign currency at one rate, added a commission for their services (the
spread), and sold the currency to the customers at a higher rate.

CHAPTER5 THESECRETTOMAKINGMONEY 75
Thereafter, based on the growing volume of all those commercial
transactions, bank traders started to speculate on future currency rates.
They then could give a quote at a certain rate and hold the transaction until
another one came by at a better price. Given these practices, the banks were
able to expand their profits. On the other hand, though, the liquidity redis-
tribution made some transactions impossible to complete.
For this reason, the market was opened to nonbank and noncommercial
participants. More orders started to flow into the market from less experi-
enced participants, from which banks could make an additional profit, pro-
viding a better liquidity distribution for their international orders.
The largest proportion of transactions in the FOREX market is per-
formed by the largest central banks from major countries through a series
of communication agreements. This is also known as the Interbank,which
has no physical location. All of the central banks are independent of each
other unless the need arises to execute a transaction (i.e., the exchange of
each country’s currency), and then they interact.
Since it would be difficult for each other to keep track properly of all
the transactions made and resources available, the electronic broking ser-
vice (EBS) was created as a central server that allows interconnection
between all the computers of the banking network. Through this service,
the banks can show each other the prices at which they are willing to sell or
buy any other currency and their own, creating in effect the Interbank mar-
ket. In itself, the Interbank is not a market, nor is it a market maker. Rather,
it is an application that is used to see the various bid and offer prices from
all the banks involved.
The EBS—the Interbank—is the first component of the currency mar-
kets. The next component is every bank in itself because any one of them
can buy or sell currency to any individual, institution, or business that
needs to exchange one currency into another.
The third component is the sum of all the retail brokers (i.e., market
makers) and electronic communications networks (ECNs). A market maker
is usually associated with a bank from the second level, which will provide
liquidity for all its transactions. Since these are retail institutions, it is not
easy to know how many liquidity providers with whom they are associated.
Very often, small transactions are kept in house and never reach the Inter-
bank market. Orders are matched and resolved internally, and if needed
(depending on the number of lots required), they can be transferred to
another market maker or placed directly with the liquidity provider.
This structure allows the market makers to accept negotiations with
smaller amounts, such as mini and microlots. On the Interbank market, the

76 FOREXTRADINGSECRETS
smallest amount is the standard lot (minimum $100,000). A market maker
is the counterpart of almost all its customers’transactions.
ECNs, on their side, are automated brokers that route your orders to the
best price on the platform from multiple liquidity providers. These liquid-
ity providers may be banks or other traders connected to the platform. The
deals are performed directly on the Interbank without any intermediary
dealing desk.
FOR EVERY BUYER,THERE MUST BE A SELLER
You would think that in a market such as the FOREX that moves around
such a large amount of money, liquidity would never be a problem. How-
ever, the truth is that there has to be a seller for every buyer and a buyer for
every seller for transactions to be executed.
When orders are too large at a certain price, exceeding the opposite
orders for that level, the price has to move to a point where there is enough
counterpart interest to match them. Prices that are listed on the Interbank
through the EBS show how much and at which price banks agree to buy or
sell a currency. They choose the price and are in no way forced to transact
if they believe that it is not in their best interest to do so.
The volumes of bids and offers are shown for each price level, and of
course, there are prices at which there are none. All these constitute limit
orders placed in the market.
Thus, at the moment a market order for a certain volume is placed at a
given price, it will have an effect on spreads and will move the price
accordingly. Depending on the volume and level of the opposite orders
available, the price will settle at a higher or lower level, immediately, caus-
ing a widening of the spreads and sharp changes in prices, because there
are no intermediary orders to absorb the current quote. Later on, another
order can enter the market at an intermediate price between the widened
bid-ask spread, and thus a new change in spreads and prices will occur.
Slippagemeans that there is no one to take the other side of the transac-
tion at the exact moment the order is placed in the market. You are being
given the nearest best price according to the volume of matching orders.
Changes occur very fast, especially at news time, because higher volumes
enter and exit continuously. Thus you can be quoted a price that is not avail-
able any more less than a second later. This is why you get requotes or
invalid prices because there is no more interest left at that particular level.
Thespreadis defined by the price levels where there are effectively existing
bids and offers. If all the intermediary limit orders were canceled at the same
time, the spread could widen because a higher offer and lower bid could

CHAPTER5 THESECRETTOMAKINGMONEY 77
exist at that moment. This only means that nobody is agreeing to effect a
transaction at any price between those levels. Spreads and slippage are a nat-
ural part of the trading scene and are the result of agreements or refusal to
transact between market participants and thus are impossible to avoid.
PAPER TRADING
A FOREX demo account is basically a practice account that allows traders
to use virtual credits instead of real money, but with actual real-time price
feeds and conditions, on the FOREX market. It is important for every indi-
vidual who wishes to invest in the currency markets to acquire a solid
grounding in basic financial concepts and to learn as much as possible
about technical and fundamental analysis. Then practice as needed to apply
this knowledge in a live situation to make sure that it is understood.
Paper trading (or demo trading) is often overlooked because most
traders are impatient to jump into the market and gain their first real-money
profits. However, nobody should be trading with real money until they have
at least obtained good results consistently in their demo account with real-
time conditions (not only backtesting).
Of course, being able to get excellent results on paper trading will not
guarantee that you will have the same outcome when you are trading with
real money because the emotional part of trading doesn’t show up (or at
least not at the same level) until you are using real money. However, you
will be able to determine if your strategy or system works and gauge its
probabilities while you learn all the mechanical details of the platform.
This is very important because not every trading software system offers the
exact same features, and styles of trading allowed will differ a little from
one broker to another.
All retail brokers allow their potential customers to test their platforms,
some for a limited time and others with no limited. Precise knowledge of
the software is needed to be able to act as fast as possible and avoid making
mistakes. I have integrated a demo account into my AI software platforms
to help achieve a more realistic trading environment.
You also can experiment with various trading styles and different bro-
kers in different time zones, test various systems simultaneously, and
define more precisely the trading style that suits you best. There also are
different styles of platforms. Some you can access directly online; others
need to be downloaded to your computer. Most of them integrate news
and charting packages in addition to the price feed, as well as a history

78 FOREXTRADINGSECRETS
and reports of your trading activities. It is a good idea to try several of
them so that you can master all the different mechanics. For example,
some allow you to place contrary orders on the same currency pair,
whereas others use those contrary orders to close an existing position.
Some require a single margin or even no margin on two contrary posi-
tions, whereas others require a margin guarantee on both the long and
short trades. With certain platforms, you will be able to do a stop and
reverse with just one click by opening a contrary position of double the
value of your existing position or plan a detailed sequence of interdepen-
dent orders to be executed if the first condition is met, whereas others
won’t have this feature.
With my AI software, I have had the luxury of thousands of traders over
the years providing feedback as to what features they like and don’t like,
what enhancements increase the efficiency of the platform, etc. This has
allowed me to build what I believe to be the single best, most robust and
flexible trading station on the market. If you want to learn more about it,
you can visit www.JamesDicks.com.
The following are the basic questions you should ask before you
attempt to trade live with your own real money on any platform:
1. How do I to place a market order?
2. How do I place a pending order (buy/sell limit or buy/sell stop)?
3. How do I set a stop loss?
4. Are automated trailing stops available, and if so, are they on my side
or the server’s side?
5. Can the target profit and stop loss be set at the moment of the entry,
or do they have to be set afterwards?
6. Are the spreads on the platform fixed or variable, and if so, what is
the usual range?
7. What are the swaps (overnight interest) earned or paid on open
positions that last more than 24 hours?
8. What is the lot size that can be traded (standard, mini, micro,
or nanolots)?
9. Can partial lot sizes be used (e.g., 0.45 microlots, 1.2 lots, etc.)?
10. Does the broker offer the possibility of calling the dealing room
directly by phone if my Internet connection goes down?
11. Is live support available?

CHAPTER5 THESECRETTOMAKINGMONEY 79
12. Are the trading history and reports clear enough to be used afterwards
for tax purposes? Although this is a responsibility of the trader, you
should be able to get manageable reports under the point of view
of accounting.
DISADVANTAGES OF DEMO TRADING
Most of the real circumstances of trading can be easily overlooked when
you are paper trading. Unless you commit yourself to treat your demo
account in the same way as you would a real-money account with the same
set of rules and discipline and a starting capital that is proportional to the
one you will be using when you switch to a real account, the following are
the most common pitfalls that you might face:
1. Careless handling of real risks.Losses that you may incur are not real
losses, so you won’t be able to learn to deal with your real emotions
when facing a loss.
2. No fear is involved.Whenever you start losing, and even if you get a
margin call on a demo account, you simply can start a new one all
over. So you won’t be able to learn how to handle the fear of losing,
which is a very powerful emotion in real trading.
3. No real commitment to develop a concise money management.Since
you can chose to trade with any huge amount, you could be tempted
to take excessive risks because, in the end, it is not real money, and
you could develop a bad habit that will continue when you start on a
live account.
4. You can develop greed.Given the great amounts that can be involved
in a demo account and the larger position sizes that you can trade
because of this, if you start making lots of money, you could become
greedy and be under its control.
To avoid those pitfalls, you must trade on a demo as if it were real money.
For example, if you are planning to start trading live with equity of $2,000,
open a demo account with that same amount of funds. Trading a higher
amount would be fun and boost your ego for a while, but it wouldn’t be
applicable thereafter to real life. Add to this the fact that you might lose
your sense of proportion and make huge mistakes afterwards.
Paper trading should be just for learning purposes. It’s also a good way
to test a system or strategy to see if it really works before going live with it
and losing your money. Keep in mind that if you are unable to produce

80 FOREXTRADINGSECRETS
acceptable gains on a demo account, chances are that you won’t on a real-
money account either. The good part of a demo account is that you can
make all the mistakes you need to acquire experience and confidence,
which you then will be able to apply under real conditions.
FOREX demo accounts are also very useful for experienced traders,
who employ them to bring their trading strategies to perfection, test new
changes without risking funds, or practice a new system while evaluating
its results in total safety.

6
C H A P T E R
HOW TO KEEP YOUR
PROFITS
MONEY MANAGEMENT
A good understanding and handling of money management is the key to a
successful career as a FOREX trader. Although you don’t need to have a
master’s in economics and finance to be able to trade and earn a profitable
income from your trading activities, a certain degree of financial education
assuredly is an asset. This is why I am writing this book and what my orga-
nization really does. We provide education, training, and support. There are
simply not enough places to go to learn such things as trading the FOREX.
Actually, if primary education were even a little geared toward some sort of
basic financial education, maybe we would all be a little better off.
Understanding what lies beneath price movements, how the market is
structured, what the exchanges of foreign currencies are designed to satisfy
in the current economy of the world, why and how currency values change,
and how those changes affect overall political and economical stability is
basic knowledge that has to be acquired. In particular, a thorough under-
standing of the spread and bid and ask prices and how they interact and the
implications of trading on margin is needed to establish and implement a
sound set of rules for money management of your own trading account.
As you have seen before, the bid-ask spread is the difference between
the price at which a currency pair is offered to be sold and the price at
which it is actually purchased. If the ask or offer price is $10 and the bid is
81

82 FOREXTRADINGSECRETS
$12, you get a $2 difference, which is the spread. When you are trading on
margin, you are buying and selling currency pairs for a much higher value
than the money you have in your account. The margin can be so small
because the exchange rates don’t usually move beyond 2 percent of their
value. This capability, or leverage, allows traders to obtain great profits in
a small time span, but this also represents a high risk. With proper money
management, you can effectively manage this risk.
If you want to invest in speculative activities, the most important thing
to consider is that you should only use risk capital, that is, money that you
don’t need for your daily expenses or other projects, money that you can
afford to lose should problems arise.
Never invest what you can’t afford to lose.If you don’t have the neces-
sary starting capital all at once, set aside a small portion that you will ded-
icate solely to FOREX trading. In fact, even if you have a fair amount of
money available to assign to your trading, break it into equal portions, and
use only one portion at a time. In this way, if things go wrong, you still have
another portion to start over, and your risks are minimized. Trading is not
gambling. Despite the high leverages available, where you can risk all your
account and reap a handsome profit, this would be based on luck, and luck
is for gamblers. Trading is a business, and as such, it has to be undertaken
with clear goals and asset administration.
As soon as you decide to get into real-money trading, and assuming
that you have already spent a few months paper trading on a demo account,
you should carefully examine what your goals are, how much money you
can expect to earn based on your capital, and above all, whether your goals
are realistic. Make sure that your expectations are realistic and based on the
real experiences of people you can trust.
The first step in real-money trading should be to open a small test
account with little money thus little risk. Try a mini account or, better, a
micro account, where you can open positions and trade for 1 cent a pip.
This seem like a ridiculously small amount, but remember that you are still
learning, and you need to make sure that your profits are stable and consis-
tent before increasing your capital and position sizes.
A final word about capitalization: Many people are attracted to
FOREX trading because it offers them the dream of starting a home-based
business and a chance to be their own bosses and quit a probably boring day
job. How many businesses can you start without initial working capital? If
you are thinking of getting a steady monthly income from your FOREX
activities, you have to prepare the ground very well from the start. Plan all
the steps to get to your goal because this will not happen overnight.
Remember, we’re not in this to be lucky but to be successful!

CHAPTER6 HOWTOKEEPYOURPROFITS 83
How much startup capital do I have? How much do I need for my living
expenses? How much time do I need to practice, learn, apply, and obtain
profits from my trading system in a consistent and steady manner? All this
has to be taken into account. Write down your plans and goals, with precise
schedules and numbers. Remember to be realistic in your expectations. A
high percentage of return is possible in some months but will not last over
time. A small and steady increase will last longer. Anything on the order of 2
to 5 percent a month is fairly possible to obtain with discipline and good
money management. This would represent about 0.1 to 0.25 percent daily
profits, which is achievable. Use the power of compounding: 5 percent a
month represents 60 percent a year, noncompounded, and 80 percent if you
compound the profits made monthly. Remember the rule of 72: 20 percent
doubles your investment in 3.6 years, and 40 percent doubles your investment
in 1.8 years. Pick a realistic return-on-investment goal for you, and stick to it.
A SIMPLE CALCULATOR
This is a simple calculator that you can build in any spreadsheet application
that will help you to determine the appropriate stops, targets, and risk-
reward management based on your specific plan and risk appetite. It is
composed of five variable cells, with their respective descriptions, where
you will introduce values based on different situations, and seven fixed for-
mula result cells, with descriptions, that will give you the lot size for the
trade, the value per pip, the amount of maximum loss, and the price at
which to set the stops and targets for both short and long positions depend-
ing on the actual price that you will have entered above.
A B
A1 Account B1 1,000.00
A2 Risk % B2 2%
A3 Actual Price B3 1.4500
A4 SL (pips) B4 50
A5 R/R B5 1:5
A6 Trade Size (lots) B6 0.04
A7 PIP Value B7 $0.10
A8 Max Loss B8 $20.00
A9 SL Buy B9 1.4450
A10 SL Sell B10 1.4550
A11 TP Buy B11 1.4575
A12 TP Sell B12 1.4425

84 FOREXTRADINGSECRETS
Let’s assume that you are working with columns A and B and cells A1
to B12. Column A is for the descriptions, as follows:
Account(cid:2)accountequity(not to confuse with account balance
because positions should be calculated with respect to the net
equity remaining in the account).
Risk % (cid:2)risk percentage (which should be in a 1 to 3 percent range
as a maximum for ideal money management).
Actual price (cid:2)the actual price of the currency pair.
SL(cid:2)stop loss (the number of pips or points needed depending on
your strategy and time frame).
R/R(cid:2)risk/reward (the ratio between risk and reward you would like
to apply to your trade. For example, 1:5 would be a reward that is
50 percent higher than the risk; that is, in the case of a 50-pip stop
loss, you would need a 75-pip target profit).
The remaining descriptions will have fixed formulas: Cells B6 to B12
won’t be changeable after the calculator is built.
Trade size (cid:2)size (in lots, mini lots, or microlots; you can configure
the formula to show as integers or decimals at will). In the figure
shown, size is in microlots, namely, 0.04 lot, and the result is
obtained by multiplying the pip value by 10. The formula is the
next B cell (“Pip value”) divided by 10.
Pip value (cid:2)value per pip on that particular currency pair for
the trade size (in the figure it is calculated with a fixed $10 per
standard lot, $0.10 per microlot). The formula is account
equity times risk percent divided by stop loss, or B1 times B2
divided by B4.
Max loss (cid:2)maximum amount of loss expressed in U.S. dollars or
your deposit currency of choice. The formula is pip value
times stop loss, or B7 times B4. It also could just be account
equity times risk percent, or B1 times B2, which will give the
same result.
SL buy/sell and TP buy/sell (cid:2)prices at which to set the stops and
target profits for both long and short positions. It is divided by
10,000 to get the last two digits of the decimal price in the
case of four-decimal currency pairs or by 100 in the case of JPY
two-decimal currency pairs. Formulas include

CHAPTER6 HOWTOKEEPYOURPROFITS 85
SL buy (cid:2)B3 – (B4/10,000) (cid:2)actual price – (SL/10,000)
SL sell (cid:2)B3(cid:5)(B4/10,000)(cid:2)actual price (cid:5)(SL/10,000)
TP buy (cid:2)B3(cid:5)[(B4/10,000)(cid:3)B5](cid:2)actual price
(cid:5)[(SL/10,000)(cid:3)R/R)]
TP sell (cid:2)B3 – [(B4/10,000) (cid:3)B5](cid:2)actual price
– [(SL/10,000) (cid:3)R/R)]
In this way, you will only have to change the details of the first five B
cells and will immediately obtain the position size needed to open the next
trade. I also have money-management capabilities built into my AI software,
and you can access this calculator at www.JamesDicks.com.
PERCENTAGES TO RECOVER IN CASE OF LOSS
Maximum drawdown is the largest percentage drop in your account equity.
The following table shows the percentages of profit needed to recover your
trading account to breakeven based on different percentages of equity loss.
Percent of Percent Profit Needed
Loss on Capital to Recover Up to Breakeven
10% 11.11%
20% 25%
30% 42.85%
40% 66.66%
50% 100%
60% 150%
70% 233%
80% 400%
90% 900%
As losses increase, the percentage required to recover to breakeven
increases much faster because it grows geometrically.
This emphasizes the importance of a sound money management to
avoid huge drawdowns because it is very difficult to recover from big
losses. Respect for risk is one of the characteristics of professional traders.
And risks are controlled through proper money management.

86 FOREXTRADINGSECRETS
MANAGING RISK
Every business or investment has some risks involved, including the risk of
loss. It is always possible that a trade will go wrong and turn against your
chosen direction. Being aware of risks can help to minimize them, although
there isn’t any guarantee that they can be eliminated.
EXCHANGE-RATE RISK OR EXTREME VOLATILITY
The FOREX is highly volatile, and changes in rates can be sudden and
totally unpredictable. You have to be prepared to cut your losses—and fast.
Correct timing is the key. Don’t let your positions run too far away. The
price can run up or down very quickly. It is better to close with a small loss
and try again later than to hope endlessly that the market will come back.
CREDIT RISK AND FOREX SCAMS
Be very cautious to check your broker’s background before signing up for an
account and especially before sending your money. Run away from any invest-
ment program that guarantees that you will make a big profit with little risk.
In the United States, brokers should be properly registered with the
Commodities Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) and be a member of
the National Futures Association (NFA). In other countries, offshore bro-
kers should be registered with an equivalent institution.
In addition, your broker should handle pricing with honesty. Since there
is no central marketplace and the broker is the one who establishes execu-
tion prices, you can only rely on the broker’s reputation and reliability.
COUNTRY RISK OR POLITICAL/ECONOMIC INSTABILITY
Countries that participate in the FOREX market can represent a risk when
they limit their currency flow. Choose to trade currency pairs that are
among the most liquid and free markets to be sure that you don’t get caught
in a bad trade. Lack of liquidity can be an obstacle to closing a position
because there is no counterpart at the moment to perform the exchange.
This is why exotic or seldom-traded currencies represent a high risk.
ELECTRONIC OR SYSTEM FAILURES
Besides risking that your own equipment could crash or a power outage could
block you from managing your open positions, sometimes the platform’s
server can fail. When this happens, you are unable to cancel or modify open
orders or enter new positions until the technical problem is solved. Be sure to
check whether your broker has alternatives, such as a phone dealing desk or a
mobile platform, to palliate this risk. Another issue is problems with a broker’s

CHAPTER6 HOWTOKEEPYOURPROFITS 87
data feed from the liquidity provider. Although such problems usually are
solved quickly, your orders could be slipped or closed at a price other than you
anticipate. While placing trades, always set a stop, even if it is a safety stop far
outside the market. In this way, if anything does happen to your trade, you still
have a level of protection.
LEVERAGE AND TRUE LEVERAGE
Usual leverage can be anything between 1:1 and 1:500. This refers to the
margin needed to secure a position. Thus 1:1 leverage would mean that
for opening a trade with 1 lot, you would need to have at least $1,000 for
the margin (more if the main currency is not the U.S. dollar), plus the
spread(cid:3)$10, plus your stop loss (cid:3)$10, plus maybe a little more room just
in case. At 1:500, you would need only 0.20 percent of the value of the lot
(or $200 to $300) plus the mentioned additions to open that same position.
True leverage is the full amount of your position divided by the amount
of money deposited in your trading account. However, true leverage is the
proportion of the overall position size. Indeed, if you open 1 lot with only
$300 in your account, you are using the full 1:500 true leverage. Now, if
you open a position that, including the spread and risk, totals $300, you
would be using 1:1 true leverage. This would be, for example, 300 units
(3 nanolots; pip value $0.01 per nanolot).
If you are using microlots (pip value $0.1), you would be using 1:10
true leverage. Should you open more positions, the total added value of
your trades would vary the leverage accordingly (3 positions at 1:10 (cid:2)1:30
true leverage), and the leverage will keep growing (which, in fact, is also
growing your risk) as you keep adding.
Let’s say that you don’t want to risk more than 2 percent of your
account, so you want to use 20 pips maximum risk per trade. On this same
$300 account, you can open a position of 3 microlots (3000 units) at 2 per-
cent risk with a 20-pip stop. This will give you the above-mentioned 1:30
true leverage, which is a conservative ratio, and with any amounts, the risk
percentage doesn’t change (only the required stops and corresponding
position sizing should you need more or less than 20 pips). If you are risk-
ing 2 percent of your total equity, you will never lose more than 2 percent
of your total equity, independent of any leverage used.
If you want to raise your stops—let’s say that you need 60 pips, still at
2 percent risk—you would only open one microlot. Your position then will
be at 1:10 true leverage. However, you still would lose only 2 percent of
your account if stops are hit. Raise your stops to 100 pips, and decrease the

88 FOREXTRADINGSECRETS
position to 600 units or 6 nanolots. Your position now would be at 1:2 true
leverage, but you still would lose only 2 percent of your account if stops are
hit. And so on.
Also remember that the calculations have to be made on your account’s
equity, not the balance. You could have several positions open and going
down, and thus your equity would be decreasing. The remaining equity is
the only available capital at that moment.
Position size has to be adjusted while growing (andwhile decreasing).
In fact, if you maintain the same 2 percent risk and 20-pip calculation,
you’ll be automatically adding lots (or mini-, micro-, or nanolots) to your
position as soon as the proportion allows it. You also can decide to increase
the stops instead and keep the original number of lots should you want to
trade on higher time frames.
There are numerous ways of looking at leverage and risk. I like to keep
things simple, so I think about them separately. Risk is the percentage of your
account that you’re willing to lose on a trade. Let’s say that you have a $10,000
account (for a $500 account, see my comments below). If you trade 0.5 lot of
GBP/USD, every 1-pip movement will affect your account by $5. Thus, if you
set your stop loss 40 pips away from entry, then the risk is 40 (cid:3)$5(cid:2)$200,
which is 2 percent of your $10,000 account. Viewed this way, none of this has
anything to do with leverage. Risk is the product of position size (0.5 lot in this
example) and stop-loss point (40 pips from entry).
Leverage determines the amount of money you need in your account
(margin) to be able to take the trade. Let’s say that GBP/USD is currently
priced at $1.45, and your broker is offering you 100:1 leverage. Then the
margin you need is 0.5 lot (cid:3)$100,000 per lot/100 leverage (cid:3)1.45(cid:2)$725,
which is 7.25 percent of your $10,000. If the leverage were only 50:1, then
the amount required would be 0.5 (cid:3)100,000/50(cid:3)1.45(cid:2)$1450, or 14.50
percent; that is, at 50:1, you need twice the margin than at 100:1, and so on.
Thus, at 50:1, you are locking up 14.50 percent of your account balance,
leaving the remaining 85.50 percent free (unused or available margin) to
place on other trades. None of this alters the fact that the risk is still 2 per-
cent, meaning that if your stop loss gets hit, you lose $200.
A standard account allows a minimum position size of 1 lot, a mini
account allows 0.1 lot, and a micro account 0.01 lot. This, assuming a
minimum-size trade on GBP/USD in a standard account, each pip move
alters your account balance by $10; in a mini account, $1; and in a micro
account, 10 cents.
As a general rule, you shouldn’t place more than 1 to 2 percent at risk on
any one trade. This will allow your account to survive many losses. Preserv-
ing capital will keep you in the game. Of course, if you’re new to the FOREX,

CHAPTER6 HOWTOKEEPYOURPROFITS 89
you should start trading in a demo account to practice your understanding of
the preceding and to get a feel for the mechanics of trading.
Take, for example, a $500 mini account: 2 percent (risk per trade) of $500
is $10. Thus, given that each pip is worth $1, the maximum distance your stop
loss can be away from entry is 10 pips. Obviously, this gives very little room
to move. Hence, with only $500, it would be better to trade in microlots. It is
said that to trade a standard account (at 2 percent risk per trade), the ideal
amount required would be a minimum deposit of $25,000; proportionally,
then, a mini account would require $2,500 and a micro account $250. At 2
percent risk, each of these allows you to place a stop loss 50 pips from entry.
OVERTRADING AND OVERCONFIDENCE
Overtrading can be interpreted in two ways: opening too many positions
with regard to your account equity or trading beyond a certain quantity of
positions in a single day because you feel that you need to be “always in the
market.” It is so easy to jump compulsively into a trade without regard for
your strategy or for the consequences, which often can be costly. Overcon-
fidencecan lead to overtrading because you feel all powerful and think that
you will keep winning more and more. As a result, you incur excesses and
overlook the warning signs. Revenge trading is the inverse behavior and
another type of overtrading, where you keep desperately opening positions
after you have lost many previous ones in the hope of recovering the losses.
Such behavior is enhanced by emotions such as anger and frustration.
How can you determine if you are overtrading? The following are some
symptoms that can help you to identify and correct this erroneous trading
style:
● You don’t have a trading signal, or at least the signal is not very clear.
● You check all the possible time frames, currency pairs, and indicators
available, switching from one to another looking for a “confirmation”
justifying your need to be in the market.
● You open a trade as soon as you enter your trading platform without
much previous analysis.
● You see opportunities and trends everywhere, and if you don’t trade,
you feel that you are missing out on potential profits.
● You feel frustrated when you think of an entry point but fail to enter,
and then it goes the way you predicted.
● You want to stay awake from Sunday to Friday so that you don’t miss
any trade; you sleep very little and scour the charts every 5 minutes
looking for another trade.

90 FOREXTRADINGSECRETS
● You can’t bear to be away from your trading platform. In fact, this is
one of the reasons I created the James Dicks FOREX alerts—so that
you don’t have to sit at your computer Sunday through Friday. My
traders do that for you, and when they enter a trade, they will send out
an alert so that you can quickly see what they are looking at and make
a decision to enter the trade or not.
● Maybe you have a working trading plan and system, but you often
bend the rules and justify this with a series of weak excuses: “I’m
risking so little that it won’t matter”; “This time only”; “This is the
perfect setup, and I don’t want to miss the profits”; “The market is
moving a lot; I’ve got to jump in”; and so on.
● You think that the more you trade, the more profits you will make.
You open a lot of random positions because behind any of them lies
assuredly the “big home run” that will make up for all your previous
losses. You trade carelessly and furiously, with despair and excitement
and contradictory emotions throughout the entire process. You enjoy
the rush and stress and think that they are a normal part of trading.
Anything else would be boring.
Overtrading reduces your win-loss ratio and increases your costs
because every time you open a trade, you are paying the spread and com-
missions if your broker is an electronic communications network (ECN).
Trading should not be seen as an adventure or a hobby. It is a business
and a money-making opportunity, where you can succeed if you treat it as
such. If you constantly lose or have huge losses followed by extraordinary
wins without a system and a planned strategy, you are trading carelessly
and just gambling. Trying to get revenge after a string of losses is very
common. This attitude is lead by a mixture of fear and anger and only
brings about more losses and frustration. Keep your money management
under strict control. Many traders increase their position size after a series
of bad trades in the hope that a single winning trade will allow them to
recover all. Trade what you see in the market, use your system, and follow
your plan. Losses are part of the picture, and money management will take
care of them. Money-management rules are very easy: Your winning posi-
tions should be bigger than your losing trades.
If you are new to FOREX trading, do not get involved in scalping. This
is a very risky and difficult strategy that requires a strong personality, total
control, focus, and a clear mind that is free of negative or positive emo-
tions. A strict discipline is needed to enter and exit many dozens of trades
in a short time span.

CHAPTER6 HOWTOKEEPYOURPROFITS 91
Overconfidence is perhaps the trickier state of mind for a trader. The
ego boost that a series of winning trades can give you is even worse than
the effects of a losing streak. Wait for the market to come to you. Chasing
the market is a common mistake. After every small move, there is almost
always a retracement, where you can enter at a better price.
OVERLEVERAGING
The extreme leverage allowed by some FOREX brokers—a relative pro-
portion that can go up to 500:1, which means controlling on the markets an
amount of money 500 times greater than what you are required as margin—
can induce a trader very easily to overleverage his or her positions and risk
a total margin call. The most important and first thing to do is to protect
your working capital.
Working with only a small percentage of your total equity is not easy
when trading on very small accounts. For this reason, you should find a bro-
ker that allows microlots or even nanolots, in which every pip has a value of
1 or 10 cents. A microlot is equivalent to controlling $1000; a nanolot would
be $100. In this way, you can trade with a greater confidence and manage
your risk more efficiently by setting your stop losses at the exact level where
they have to be and avoid being stopped out on tight settings because you
can’t afford to risk more.
Depending on your trading style, you will need to open much smaller
lot sizes, especially if you are scaling or averaging down into a losing posi-
tion, which is not a recommended trading style but can be done with a care-
ful plan. Scaling involves splitting a single position into several parts to
enter at a better price on a trade after a signal given by your system has
proven that the entry and direction can have good probabilities. Always
protect your trading account; the best way to make it grow is to use com-
pounding and make continuous small, consistent profits instead of hoping
that you will hit the jackpot. Remember, FOREX trading is not gambling.
When you use smaller positions, you are limiting your risk and also avoid-
ing huge drawdowns that would limit your available margin and thus your
trading ability.
It is of fundamental importance to determine how much you can
afford to lose because this is what will allow you to choose the most suit-
able type of leverage. Using leverage judiciously allows you to maximize
your profits and minimize your losses and, above all, to keep trading for a
longer time.

92 FOREXTRADINGSECRETS
TRADE EXPECTATIONS
Many traders worry about how many pips they are “leaving on the table.”
Currency rates are constantly moving, giving and taking, even in a small
range. Thus there will always be “pips on the table” for traders to take or lose.
The price moves (on average and based on the slowest markets such as
Asia) about 10 pips every 5 minutes, then reverses, then again, etc., even in
a tight channel, as you might have seen (barely 15- to 20-pip ranges). On a
1-minute chart, you can’t expect much more per trade unless the pair starts
trending (which seldom occurs in Asia) or unless you stay in the trade by
managing your stops and watching the higher time frame (5 minutes). This
is especially true if your entry is conservative.
However, in more volatile market conditions, trades can yield a better
return. Thus maybe you would have to find better trading conditions, such
as the Europe–New York market, where a conservative entry will not ham-
per evolution of the trade.
There are thousands of pips of the table (and many more if you con-
sider all the pairs that are moving at the same time). Cherish the ones the
market is willing to give you; there are always plenty of opportunities
throughout the day.
I often make light of how badly traders want to be in the market, myself
included. I like to trade. I enjoy the process. I am not a gambler and really
do not like to lose. I focus on good money management, but even that and
my plan sometimes suffer at the hands of boredom. I can be at home sitting
around late at night after everyone has gone to bed, nothing on television,
and the only thing left to do is pull out my laptop, open up my AI software,
and start looking for a trade. I will analyze everything with nothing really
to trade. In such a situation, the next thing that happens is that you start see-
ing things that aren’t there. You place a trade, and the trade goes against
you. Then you get mad, and you cost-average down or revenge trade. And
then you take a loss. I always say that I can make any chart look good. It is
true. Stare at any currency pair or stock, for that matter, and if you want to
get into the market, you will convince yourself that the trade looks good.
Just remember the rule of 72, and don’t force trades. If things aren’t going
well for you, simply stop trading and take a break. Come back with a clear
head and a positive mental attitude, and then you will be ready to trade
some more.

3
P A R T
TRADING PSYCHOLOGY

This page intentionally left blank

7
C H A P T E R
MASTERING
EMOTIONS
TRADING PSYCHOLOGY
Most traders can spend years trying to find and develop the “right” system
with the expectation that it will yield excellent results and make a lot of
money for them. However, very few would dedicate as much time to delve
deeply in their own psychology as human beings and as traders, thus
neglecting the most important part of the FOREX trading scene: the indi-
vidual trader.
Having a good system, coupled with a sound money management and
a disciplined trading plan, is fundamental indeed. But it will not work com-
pletely unless the trader is able to understand all the psychological barriers
than could affect the decision-making processes and the ulterior reactions
that stem from any positive or negative outcome of the decisions made.
Trading must include all these elements in a balanced way for the trader to
succeed in this business.
What is the first thought that comes to your mind when your trade has
a negative outcome? The first thing you probably blame is “your system.”
You “knew” you shouldn’t have taken the trade; you look for what could
be wrong in your strategy, even if the system effectively gave the trading
signal. Seldom, however, do you look inside your own self to see what
really happened at that moment.
95

96 FOREXTRADINGSECRETS
What is a mistake? In your day-to-day life, being wrong or making a
mistake is something bad and signals incompetence. You are conditioned
to strive and fight to always be right, so it is very difficult at the begin-
ning to be able to accept that losses are only a normal part of the trading
environment.
It is said that only a small group of traders is able to achieve the goal of
obtaining consistent and continuous profits. Do they have a special gift that
differentiates them from others? The reason behind their success is persis-
tence. They are not set back because of mistakes. On the contrary, any mis-
take they make is a lesson to learn and another chance to try again, to do it
better, and in the end, this persistence is what makes all the difference.
You accept the concept that failing to obtain money from any given
trade is a mistake. However, this is not true. You make mistakes when you
don’t follow the guidelines of your trading plan. You make mistakes when
you violate the rules of your system. Here are a few examples of what
would be a trading mistake and what wouldn’t.
First trade:Your system gives the signal to take a trade. You do so,
and the outcome is profitable. You make money with that trade.
You followed the rules. This confirms that the system works and
reinforces your confidence in it, as well as your self-confidence
as a trader. No mistakes were made.
Second trade:You take the signal, but it ends up being a losing trade.
You lose money. You followed the rules. You understand that it is
not possible to win every trade that you make and that it is part of
the whole outcome of your system, a given percentage of winners
and losers. You keep your confidence because you respected the
guidelines of your system. No mistakes were made.
Third trade:You do not take the signal, and the trade would have
been profitable. You do not lose, but neither do you gain any
money. You feel frustrated because you didn’t follow the rules of
your system. You lose self-confidence as a trader. You made a
mistake, which was not taking a trade when the system gave you
the entry signal.
Fourth trade:You do not take the signal, and the trade would have
been a losing one. You are glad that you didn’t lose any money.
This is a risky outcome because you might start thinking that you
are better than your system. Thus, thereafter, you will continue to
have second thoughts on every trade that is signaled by your
system because subconsciously you are certain that your “feeling”

CHAPTER7 MASTERINGEMOTIONS 97
is more accurate than the system. You start developing
overconfidence, which is fatal to your confidence into the system
and most probably to the final outcome of your trading activities.
You made the same mistake as in the third trade: not taking a
trade when the system gave you the entry signal.
Fifth trade:You don’t have a signal from the system. You don’t take
any trade. You are disciplined and enter trades only as signaled by
the system and the rules. You feel confident as a trader and trust
your system. No mistake was made.
Sixth trade:No signal, but you take a trade, which turns out to be
profitable. You make money. As in the fourth trade, this is very
dangerous and leads to overconfidence because you will start
thinking that you do not need the system at all, that you know
better. You will start trading based on your own thoughts. You
have lost confidence in the system. You made a mistake, which
was taking a trade when the system did not give any entry signal.
Seventh trade:No signal, but you take a trade, and it is a losing one.
You lose money. You start thinking that your strategy is not good.
You will think twice next time before entering a trade if it is not
signaled by the system. You regain confidence in the system. You
made a mistake by taking a trade without a signal from the system.
Mistakes are independent of the results (money gained or money lost).
A huge win can be a huge mistake, and a small loss can be a positive out-
come. Mistakes are only related to your ability to respect the rules and fol-
low the discipline of your trading system and plan. The same concept
applies to entry and exit strategies and includes money-management rules,
such as entering a trade with a bigger position size than what your system
has calculated previously based on your plan.
HOW CAN YOU HANDLE MISTAKES?
The basic approach to avoiding mistakes is to have a trading plan, which
will include the system itself, how and when to enter and exit the market,
money management, how much will you risk on every trade, and any addi-
tional detail relative to the trade itself. Then a very important element is to
be able to exert a strict discipline and follow the outlined trading plan.
Another important issue is that your trading plan should be in line with
your personality and beliefs. If any of the elements of the plan contradict
your belief system or your action pattern and habits, it will be much harder
to develop enough discipline to follow its guidelines.

98 FOREXTRADINGSECRETS
At the moment you created the plan, you were not trading, so there
were no psychological obstacles to developing the plan after a thorough
analysis of all possible situations. In this way, you can be assured that if you
follow your plan to the letter, you will be making the best decision, and this
will help you to get the best results. The system eliminates most worries
and concerns because you only have to follow the plan point by point with
confidence and steadiness.
There are four steps that I find useful in successfully handling the con-
cept of “making mistakes” when trading:
1. Change your beliefs.
2. Find out what the mistake was.
3. Study the consequences of the mistake.
4. Implement an action so that the mistake doesn’t happen again.
Change Your Beliefs
Your beliefs will determine, to a certain extent, your mental fitness. Your
beliefs represent your attitude in life toward anything that surrounds you.
They also shape your emotions. You agree or disagree with a certain point
of view independent of the right or wrong of it. You trust your view. But
how many of those beliefs are really helping you to see the real picture? To
change your beliefs, you would have to examine what lies at the root of
your belief system, look for evidence that sustains a different point of view,
and investigate further.
Begin to see every mistake as a learning experience and every losing
trade as a lesson that you will have to accept and understand fully instead
of feeling frustration and disappointment. Find out what happened and
why. In this way, you will be able to change the beliefs that are presently
limiting your success.
Find Out What the Mistake Was
Reexamine the situation that led to a loss, and identify the mistake itself.
Find out its nature, why it happened, what the conditions were, and what
you did or didn’t do. Were you following the system? Did you break any
rules of your plan? What were you feeling at that time? You need to search
as deep as you can to find the real motives that caused the mistake.
You also will need to find out about mistakes that had a positive out-
come; this can be a little more difficult because you will tend to overlook the
details of a successful trade. Examine every trade you make under the same
parameters. Keep a thorough record of all the circumstances involved so that
you can easily discover if taking that particular trade was a mistake or not.

CHAPTER7 MASTERINGEMOTIONS 99
Study the Consequences of the Mistake
Make a list of all the consequences of a specific mistake, good and bad.
Also make a list of all the possible lessons that you can learn from what
happened. For example, one of the lessens could be that not following the
system will cause you to lose confidence in it and be out of winning trades
when you should be in or in losing trades when you should be out.
Implement an Action So That the Mistake Doesn’t Happen Again
You need to change your behavior so that the mistake doesn’t happen again.
Every mistake can be changed into a trading success if it is thoroughly
assimilated in your mind and action. In this way, you can commit other mis-
takes, but not this particular one again. If the mistake comes from your sys-
tem, redefine and refine the strategy so that you don’t encounter further
problems in following its rules and signals in the future.
As soon as you understand that the result of your trades has nothing to
do with a mistake, you will be opening your mind to hundreds of possibili-
ties, and you will be able to finally comprehend the very nature that lies
behind every apparent mistake. Taking action properly will lead you to a
successful trading career, where you never stop learning. The process will be
slow and probably repetitive, but your attitude when dealing with mistakes
and your constant work at finding out and correcting the situation gradually
will shape your future as a trader and, most important, as a human being.
EMOTIONS OF TRADING
Emotions are intense mental states that come from the subjective mind
instead of an effort or consciousness. They usually manifest as strong feel-
ings, such as love, hate, fear, pleasure, happiness, pride, etc. Emotions can
be positive or negative.
Any kind of emotions can interfere with your trading because a trader
is a human being at any time independent of the degree of experience pos-
sessed. Having emotions is a normal human condition; determining how to
deal with them so that they do not disturb or represent an obstacle to your
trading success is what counts.
NEGATIVE EMOTIONS
Negative emotions are one of the main factors that cause trading failures.
The focus of the trader is mostly on fear, failure, greed, self-sabotage, ego,
self-destruction, etc. As a result, enormous amounts of energy are diverted
from the normal learning process. Of themselves, emotions are not a bad

100 FOREXTRADINGSECRETS
thing; they are normal reactions that normal human beings experience
when confronted with different situations. However, how to handle those
emotions is the key. Being able to overcome a failure, control oneself, and
move the focus to a new trading opportunity are necessary to let go of the
past and keep on track, with persistence, on the path to success. If you are
unable to let go of the bad trades, disappointment will take over and
obstruct little by little any further attempt at entering winning trades.
POSITIVE EMOTIONS
Positive emotions are the result of a desire for happiness and success, such
as when you have closed a successful trade, accomplished a certain goal, or
finally solved a problem. When you experience positive emotions, they can
enhance your life and uplift you.
However, overconfidence, excessive exhilaration over a series of win-
ning trades, and the rush that comes from the challenge and expectation of
making huge profits also can hinder the outcome of your trades.
STRESS AND CONFUSION
An excess of information—too many books, too many systems, too many
gurus, too many indicators—can get in the way of acquiring essential
knowledge. Traders still fail despite all the fancy tools, multiscreen moni-
tors, superfast computers, and vast amounts of data that become too much
to absorb. Too many news services; too many signal services that often give
contradictory opinions; all the chat rooms, traders’forums, and webinars;
and the latest guru with his or her “from 1K to 1 million in 2 months” 100
percent successful and foolproof system all push us into complete and
exhausting confusion because of information overload. This raises your
stress level, which will have a negative effect on your trading decisions.
There is nothing wrong with studying and absorbing as much realistic
information about your career as you can. But more important is how you
apply all that information. Successful traders will look only for the most
relevant and essential data that can help them to refine their trading
systems and that they can apply to their own psychological traits, personal
situations, and trading styles.
HOW CAN YOU USE EMOTIONS TO YOUR ADVANTAGE?
Emotions definitely can be used in a positive way. They are a valuable
source of information that can help us in making the right decisions. The
goal is not to get rid of them, but rather to learn to control and use them for
the best outcome. You shouldn’t avoid them; on the contrary, you must get

CHAPTER7 MASTERINGEMOTIONS 101
in touch with your deeper feelings and thus know yourself more thor-
oughly. Disappointment or frustration appears when losing; happiness and
excitement arrive when you are winning. It would be extremely difficult
not to feel anything and become like a robot.
The first step is to learn to focus your emotions on your positive trad-
ing and life goals, dreams, and projects. When you experience a loss, you
should review the trade and then use the fear of making that mistake again
to help you get out of future trades earlier or plan your exit strategies more
carefully. This would be a positive outcome that will help you to succeed in
the future. A negative outcome would be using hope to stay in a losing trade
in the expectation that the market will reverse. This should be avoided.
Negative emotions have a tremendous impact on your mind and body.
They will affect all your thinking processes and become an obstacle to your
trading. You can’t feel happy, confident, and peaceful when you are having
a negative emotion. You can’t be in control either. The emotion takes hold
of your mind and leads to wrong assessments or decisions.
Accept your losses as part of the business. Learn from them, and try not
to repeat the mistake in the future. Take some time off periodically in your
daily schedule to relax your mind and your body. In this way, you can take
the attention off the negative feelings and turn toward more positive
thoughts. You could try to use some sort of meditation routine as a means to
achieve peace of mind. Among other activities, physical exercise is an excel-
lent way to get rid of all the accumulated stress, and it also keeps you healthy
and thus more fit and energized when you come back to the trading charts.
Listen to good music, music that elevates your mind and spirit and calms
your senses. Let go of the past. Don’t cling to past failures. Move on to the
next challenge because there will be many to come, and they all will be
interesting and yield additional knowledge and certitude. You cannot change
the past, and you don’t know what the future will bring about, but you can
assuredly change the now, which is the place where you should try to live
the most. Changing the nowwill automatically change any future outcome.
Prepare yourself, and be confident about your skills and experience.
HOW TO GAIN CONFIDENCE IN TRADING
You should prepare yourself by acquiring an adequate skill level through
the study of technical and fundamental analysis, plus a sufficient amount of
screen time. Go back to the basics. Review your trading plan periodically,
as well as your system and strategies. Be sure to understand all the steps,
and make sure that you follow them as per your trading plan. Check the
reasons why you sometimes do not follow the rules.

102 FOREXTRADINGSECRETS
To avoid stress buildup, work with small position sizes until your
successful trades become consistent and steady. When you start winning,
even if small, you should reward yourself in some way for the success.
Learn from your mistakes whenever they occur. Accept losses as part of the
business experience. Some traders even have more losers than winners as a
percentage, but they cut the losses as soon as possible and let the winners
run, so their risk-reward ratio is high even if they win less than 50 percent
of the time. Use positive affirmations, and visualize your goals. Feel like a
winner, act like a winner, be a winner! Do not waste any time or energy on
negative emotions or doubts.
Choose a strategy that fits you and that you understand and like. There
are hundreds of systems, but it is better to master a single one or, at best,
two or three depending on market conditions. This will allow you to be
completely focused on the price action instead of wandering around the
details that you do not fully grasped.
Observe your thought processes. Be aware of what you think, espe-
cially when taking a trade. Thoughts tend to materialize, independent of
whether they are positive or negative. Do not judge yourself; observe and
detect any negativity arising. Replace negative thoughts with a positive
counterpart. Use visualization as a means to make the negativity disappear,
replacing it with a powerful and positive energy that fills your mind and
body with renovated impulses. Feel strong, feel calm, and feel that you are
in control.
Avoid the company of negative people, don’t view negative movies,
and avoid negative surroundings. Read positive books and quotes, think
positive, and speak positive. Thoughts should inspire you to improve and
get better in all areas of your life that you want to improve. Try to be spe-
cific about your goals and the steps you will undertake to reach them. Rein-
force the positive with your ability to focus by remembering great moments
where you had a successful outcome, happy moments, and beautiful places.
Surround yourself with harmony, order, and beauty.
NEGATIVE FORCES
Negative forces are overwhelming behavioral patterns that you direct
against yourself and that invariably will lead you to a loss.
Self-destruction.Individuals who are self-destructive tend to minimize
themselves and thus their future evolution. They don’t have a clear
sense of self-identity and fluctuate between other people’s ideas
and ways of being. Contradiction and confusion are common.

CHAPTER7 MASTERINGEMOTIONS 103
Doing too much.This is another form of self-destruction through
exhaustion. People undertake too many projects and activities for
short spans of time, touching superficially on everything and
mastering nothing. They are too busy to pay attention to results;
they always feel that they aren’t doing enough. This leads to
permanent dissatisfaction and unfinished issues and projects.
Distraction.Not living in the nowcan be a very powerful negative
force. Your energies are diverted from the actual present activity,
and your mind wanders about, for example, regretting the past,
worrying about others’opinions, fearing the future, and being
absolutely overwhelmed by the present. Such people are not
living, nor are they focused on what has to be done now.Thus
they have no real control over what happens in their lives.
Inefficiency.A lot of people continually complain about not having
enough resources to get the job done. Meanwhile, they are
wasting the few resources they have. They waste time, money, and
energy and at the same time think that they are productive
because they are always moving things, going here and there
repetitively, taking more steps than needed to realize an activity,
not planning carefully in advance what has to be done, checking
once and again the same point obsessively, and not scheduling
and organizing their activities in a logical fashion.
Poor discipline.Discipline is erroneously seen by some people as
something enforced on you by someone else. This is wrong. You
are the one who decides to follow up a series of rules; you choose
to be your own master. A lack of discipline leads to poor focusing
ability, inconsistency, and impatience. It can only be resolved by
building up one’s own self-esteem.
Insufficient training.Skills have to be built. Natural talent can be a
wonderful asset, but if you lack the needed foundation that comes
from a thorough apprenticeship in any career or technical field,
sooner or later you will be whipsawed by the forces of good and
bad fortune. Building your attitude through discipline and
adequate learning is a must. Most people want to reap the rewards
right now and procrastinate at developing all the needed skills
that will yield those rewards. Practice makes perfect, day after
day. Most people just react in the moment and are swung around
any way the wind blows while feeling overly powerful and
neglecting any kind of preparation. Know your own limitations,

104 FOREXTRADINGSECRETS
and strive to push them further away from yourself through
education and a thorough practice of what you have learned.
A TRADER’S CAPITAL SINS
There are seven capital sins: pride, avarice, envy, wrath, lust, gluttony,and
sloth.A trader’s capital sins would number eight because you have to add
fearto the deadly list.
Pride.Overconfidence is one of the biggest causes of bankruptcy in
FOREX trading. You think that you know it all, you risk a little
too much, you win, excess of confidence is reinforced, and
suddenly you lose grip on an unexpected market reaction because
of the cloudy vapors of glory stemming from your ego. You will
need to continuously criticize your strategy with perspicacity,
keep studying the market as it changes continuously, and always
find out the cause for the outcome of your trading.
Avarice.Greed or excessive and unrealistic ambition is, in fact,
caused by a subconscious fear. It is impossible to become rich in
a week without making an effort to learn and investing your own
time, hard-earned money, and dedication. There is no free lunch,
and you will have to be persistent at acquiring the necessary skills
if you want to succeed.
Envy.Some traders are always comparing themselves with other
apparently more successful traders, trying to copy their strategies,
clinging around to get their trading calls or signals, and asking for
directions. Always doubt that anyone has really found that elusive
Holy Grail. Analyze by yourself, use your own common sense,
and develop and build your own system. It will save you a lot of
money in the end.
Wrath.Anger and revenge will cloud your judgment. You feel that the
market is against you, price always moves in the opposite
direction of your trade, and your broker is after you and wants
you to lose, hunts your stop losses, and separates you from your
money and potential profits. Watch closer: If price is always
going against your trade, most probably you simply made a
mistake. Assume your losses, wait for another opportunity,
reinforce your discipline, and above all, do not try to get even or
revenge-trade. This is the best way to lose even more and faster.
Refine your money-management rules, reduce your risks, and

CHAPTER7 MASTERINGEMOTIONS 105
correct the flaws that your system could have. This is the only
way to recover and win in the end.
Lust.The ultimate technological gadgets will not help you to advance
a millimeter in your trading career. Worse, excess in any field can
be counterproductive. Too many screens and too much time
watching the charts lead to stress and anxiety, eye strain, and a
state similar to hypnosis and delusion. You will begin seeing
nonexistent signals, or you will be paralyzed and fascinated by
screen movement when it is the moment to act. Never spend more
than eight hours a day watching your computer monitor; if you
trade and analyze full time, it is even better to make several small
pauses during the day because a focused activity has a relatively
short time span, something around two or three continuous hours,
maybe even less. Stay healthy. If your health declines, you will
not be able to apply your methodology as well, and the odds will
start piling against your success. Your ability to manage your
screen time and overall daily life schedule efficiently will
determine your success or failure.
Gluttony.Respect your stops. Take profits with prudence and
intelligence. You can never catch a complete rally. Not all trades
will be winners. One pip more can become 50 pips less.
Sloth.Nothing happens by chance. Gambling is not trading. You need
to design a plan and trade following its rules. Barely using vague
hunches or intuition or other people’s random calls is the same as
tossing a coin—heads or tails, bulls or bears. The only path to
success is through a methodical and systematic approach.
Fear.Fear is paralyzing. But you can use it to your advantage! Employ
the fear emotions to help you get out of trades much sooner. You
risk not being able to trade another day! Control the fear, and
make it work for your benefit.
HOW TO GET OUT OF A BAD TRADE
There’s no “perfection to the pip” with so many different prices at different
brokers and times—only ranges (which on longer time frames I would say
have (cid:5)20/(cid:4)20 accuracy). This seems like a lot, but remember that you
should not be seeking to catch the very bottom or top and then bring the
position to its very utmost perfect exit target. As in a sandwich, the meat is
in the middle.

106 FOREXTRADINGSECRETS
Scalping is a different thing, of course. In longer time frames, though,
it is better (and easier) to plan on that middle range.
Every system (paired with the trader himself or herself) has an average
win-loss ratio that is the result of previous thorough testing. For example, a
certain system can have a win-loss ratio of around 75:35. This means that
for every 100 trades, you have to be prepared to accept a third of them to be
stopped out.
Now, what is a “good trade”? How can a losing or stopped-out trade be
good? A good trade is a position that has been taken based on the rules,the
rules of the system itself and your own money-management rules. In this
way, you can have good losing trades and bad winning trades. Let’s say
your money-management rule is “not to risk more than 2% on a single
trade,” plus your system’s rules. You suddenly decide to have a go at gam-
bling and open a position with half the money in your account and enter the
trade without waiting for the entry rules to be met. Suddenly, you’re lucky!
The trade goes in your direction, and after a few minutes, you close the
trade with positive pips. Wow, what a winner!
In fact, no! That super-duper “winning” trade is a bad trade in your
books because you broke every rule of your trading plan, and in so doing,
you put at risk much more than what your money-management rule says.
And finally, you didn’t execute the trade with discipline. Next time you
happen to do this, who can guarantee you’ll be as lucky?
Every trade taken by the rules is a good trade. Every trade in which
you break the rules and do not follow your trading plan and your personal
discipline is a badtrade.
Now, how do you get out of a bad trade? Fast! Exit strategies should
always be planned carefully in advance because you will never know if a
trade is good or bad unless you are in it! Planning how to exit a position is
one of the most important parts of a trading plan. Entries are less important
than exits unless your style is to be scalping.
To get out of a trade, you have a choice among several techniques.
For example, you can use trailing stops, which help in securing the prof-
its while letting the trade run further. With trailing stops, you go on track-
ing the positive movement of the trade, and as soon as it moves in the
opposite direction, you exit the trade. Stops never should be changed
back because you would not be securing your profits anymore! Initial or
fixed stops are intended to take you out of a trade when it has moved
against you.
Another good exit strategy is to place a profit target. You can exit
the trade as a whole or scale out your position in several installments.

CHAPTER7 MASTERINGEMOTIONS 107
For example, if your money-management rule allows you to take 3 lots
(standard, minilots, or microlots), you break the position in three parts. You
open a trade, for example, in EUR/USD at 1.2600 with a 30-pip stop. When
the trade is 30 pips into profits, you close one of the lots and move the stops
on the other two positions to breakeven. Breakeven stops are usually set to
the entry price or at one or two additional positive pips. In this way, you
have locked some profits, and if you are stopped out, you won’t lose any
money, and you have two “free trades” to move on further if the price keeps
rising. If it does and moves to 60 pips of profit, you close the second lot,
and let the last third lot run as long as possible, using trailing stops or just
leaving the stop to breakeven. This strategy takes the fear out of the picture
and decreases the risk of drawdowns of your system while also allowing
you to profit more from a single position.
If you have open orders at news time, it would be preferable to close a
trade before the trailing stops get hit because big whipsaws could stop you
out anyway with much less profit. This especially happens when the result
of economic releases is very different from what was expected. Another
fundamental time to watch is when institutional representatives are making
public announcements.
Finally, a good stop-loss strategy is to use the nearest support or resis-
tance by examining the charts and noticing where the price has bounced
many times and reversed. Previous lows or highs, pivots, and Fibonacci lev-
els are usually quite safe. You should place the stop at around 1 or 2 percent
away from the support or resistance. Prices usually will test those levels or
even break them a little and come back. You should leave a prudent distance
so that the trade can breathe and go beyond until it returns.
HOW TO DEVELOP AN EXIT STRATEGY
To implement a successful exit strategy, you should consider the following
factors: the total time that you plan to stay in the trade, the amount of risk
that you will allow yourself to take (this pertains to money management
more properly), and finally, where and when will you want to get out of
your position. This will all depend on your trading style and your trading
personality. A long-term trader will set profit targets over many years, mak-
ing many fewer trades. He or she will study specific trailing stop levels to
lock some profits in order to limit the potential drawdown. The primary
goal of a long-term trader is to preserve capital. Profits can be taken incre-
mentally, especially on huge positions, to avoid volatility at the moment of
closing. Strategies will be oriented mostly toward including fundamental
factors that can influence the markets over a larger time span.

108 FOREXTRADINGSECRETS
A short-term trader will set targets at nearer-term levels, such as pivot
points, Fibonacci retracements, trendlines, or other technical zones. Stop
losses will be calculated to get out immediately if the position is not per-
forming. Exit strategies will be devised by taking account of short-term
technical studies or fundamental events.
Accurately gauging risk is very important when you are investing. You
need to determine how much you can afford to lose, which, in turn, will
have an effect on the duration of your trades and what kinds of stop losses
or exit strategies you should use. If you want less risk, use a tighter stop. If
you want the greatest possibility of profit from a longer-term trade and can
afford it, set wider stops, and decrease the size of your position accordingly.
Stops always should be set at levels where the normal market volatility is
less likely to reach them.
A TRADER’S TEN COMMANDMENTS
1. You can’t predict the future.Long-term technical analysis is useless in
the short term. It is not designed to predict, but rather to explain past
behaviors of the market. It can be used to have a probable idea about
the possible future behavior and chances that the past will repeat itself.
2. Don’t be prejudiced.You always must examine both sides of the
picture. Having a bullish or bearish bias can cloud the obvious signals
that your system will present. Plan accordingly so that you can be
prepared for both sides in any eventuality. Don’t try to find signals
where they are not to justify your particular and subjective point of
view. The market has no feelings.
3. Be flexible.Follow a logical and structured thought pattern instead of
pure intuition and instinct. This will help you in limiting losses over
time based on a plan. Do not cling to your positions; assume the
losses, and move on.
4. Trade with the main trend.Although you can trade against the trend if
you are aware of the probabilities and ratios of pullbacks and
corrections, it is better to trade with the major trend unless you are
just looking for a few pips. You will have more chance of success and
will be able to get more pips in a much safer manner and faster. Do
not chase the market. Let it come to you.
5. Trust your analysis.If you have carefully planned your trading session,
that is all you need to build confidence and operate according to your

CHAPTER7 MASTERINGEMOTIONS 109
own rules. Design your system, test your strategies, and calculate
your money management with respect to your available balance. If
everything is ready and you feel right with what you have designed,
work with confidence and discipline.
6. Have a plan.Never face the market without having a plan. It has to
be based on a working methodology that you will be developing day
by day, which includes what your working conditions are for that
specific trading day. If you don’t have a plan, you put probabilities
against you.
7. Know “How much” and “When.”Always keep track of and readjust
your money-management rules as needed. You should not change the
percentage or amount of capital that you can afford to risk too much
(“How much”) in each trade. You also have to study carefully
“When” to increment that risk to obtain more benefits, using
leverage in your favor.
8. Keep it simple.Thinking that the more complicated a system is, the
better results you will get is a wrong belief. Simple is always better.
At first, it can seem to you that something is missing if you use only
one or two indicators; you will have the impulse to add another, and
yet another, and can end up with a chart in which the price is no
longer visible under so many lines and signs. Besides, following too
many indicators can lead to trading paralysis because many will
contradict each other, and it will be more difficult to get them to a
consensus, so no trade and no profits.
9. You will not get rich quick. Don’t even try FOREX trading if you
are wishing to become rich in one night: Greed can blind you.
The FOREX is a profession, and as such, it needs to be studied as
thoroughly as any other career. You have to invest time and money to
become a real professional.
10. Keep control.Keep your emotions under control. Keep your trading
under control with a proper plan. Emotions are one of the most
important aspects of FOREX trading; at least they represent 60 to
70 percent of a trader’s activity. Those who succeed understand that
they have to handle their fear and greed and eliminate anxiety and
stress before starting the workday, checking the trading space and
keeping it clear of any negatives, and understanding the daily
impulses and emotions that influence them at the moment. Leave
your ego out of the picture, reeducate your natural impulses, and
add a great deal of healthy discipline.

110 FOREXTRADINGSECRETS
BECOME A PRO
FOREX trading has to be treated as a job—with a proper (and limited)
schedule that accommodates in your life the best market hours for your
strategy, as well as the rest of your obligations—family, maybe still a stan-
dard job, recreation, friendship, study, and (most important) proper rest
and sleep.
As for a standard job, you should have the proper tools, and these
include not only a good Internet connection but also a good computer and
alternative elements when one of the others falters. You should “build your
office” like you would for any other type of working situation. It should be
free of distractions, have a good and anatomic chair if your strategy asks
for long hours of screen time, and you should plan for frequent short inter-
ruptions to relax your eyes if you have been looking at the screen for
an hour, etc.
Nevertrade if you feel sleepy (imagine that your job involves operating
a very dangerous machine). Indeed, the FOREX won’t cut your hand, nor
will you slip and fall on the factory floor, but you could risk your account
because the risk of committing a mistake is very much higher when you
aren’t able to focus properly (from lack of sleep, too many hours doing the
same thing, physical pain because of improper furniture, a lower attention
capacity because of a drink or two, etc.).
Choose your trading session by carefully taking all these elements
into account. Set yourself a daily goal in pips and in time spent at the
screen. If you do not meet your goal, tomorrow is another day, and the
markets never stop.
TAXES AND LEGAL ISSUES
Individuals and businesses related to securities are classified into three dif-
ferent categories for tax purposes. Those categories are dealers, investors,
and traders. Dealersare defined as market makers. As an individual trader,
your business could fall into any of the two remaining categories.
This is an important thing to plan in advance. Most FOREX traders
consider themselves to be investors because their activity involves obtain-
ing a return on their money. However, the tax benefits are not the same. As
a trader, you can get a series of tax deductions from your income, such as
the costs of your trading education, financial software, books and study
materials, seminars, business-related trips, and meal expenses; accounting,
legal, and tax advice; and brokerage fees and commissions; office equip-
ment such as computers, phones, and Internet connection fees; overnight

CHAPTER7 MASTERINGEMOTIONS 111
interest paid on your trading account; home and automobile expenses;
and others.
You can use your trader status to create a small sole proprietorship.
Your ordinary business expenses would be placed on Schedule C, and your
income or loss would be reported on Schedule D because it is still consid-
ered capital.
No self-employment income is calculated on the total income, and your
trading losses are still limited to $3,000 per year but can be carried over
indefinitely.
The benefits of this choice are good, but there is also another way,
which might be better under several points of view, to operate your trading
business. This would be to create your own trade corporation by incorpo-
rating your business.
Establishing a trade corporation allows you to possess a new legal
entity from which to conduct your trading. This has short-term advantages,
a better and much wider protection for your assets, and other advantages
for family financial planning. Assuredly, you will be incurring in extra
costs for setting the business up and overall operational costs, but the ben-
efits are clearly more valuable.
What kind of corporation is the best for you? You can find three types
of corporations: One of them is a regular corporation, named the C corpo-
ration;then you have the sub-S corporation, which is named after the tax
code section that lists and defines its benefits; and finally, you have the
limited-liability corporation(LLC), a corporate structure that is relatively
new and was designed to overcome some of the structural difficulties of
the sub-S corporation.
The preceding applies to residents of the United States. Different laws
and tax systems apply for other countries. I would recommend that you to
approach a specialized law and taxes service in your location to help you to
define what type of business is more convenient based on your particular
situation.
For me, personally, I use a limited-liability corporation (LLC) when-
ever possible.

This page intentionally left blank

8
C H A P T E R
MIND OVER MATTER
FOR HUGE PROFITS
AFFIRMATIONS
Affirmationscan be defined as positive declarations in which the content is
stated as being true. The word positive is the clue because this is the way
affirmations should be phrased, instead of using negative words. For exam-
ple, instead of affirming, “I am free of debt,” you should say, “I have enough
money to satisfy all my obligations.”
Affirmations are used in a repetitive way to gradually reinforce
their power. They are phrased in the present tense even if the goal to be
reached hasn’t yet manifested (e.g., “I am successful” instead of “I will be
successful”).
When I was in the Marine Corps and still today, although not as much
today, I wake up every morning and say, “Another glorious day.” Ooh-Ra!
This is an affirmation. I start every day off like this, and I am able to build
on that positive mind-set throughout the day.
What is less understood is that even if you think that you don’t use
affirmations (consciously, that is), in fact, you use them continuously, day
after day, but you are not aware of it! Your beliefs and thoughts are con-
stantly running through your mind. They are built over your entire life,
and their content is a heterogeneous mix of other people’s beliefs, old
childhood rules, wrong or right decisions you have made based on life
113

114 FOREXTRADINGSECRETS
experience, and external influences from the media, which can be contra-
dictory at some point.
Those unconscious affirmations are running free, out of your control.
However, it is possible to bring them to your awareness and control the flow
and content so as to be more precise about what you really want to manifest
in your life.
Your present is the result of your past affirmations! You will become
what you always tell yourself, whether it is good or bad!
If you are not satisfied with the results you have gotten so far, which
are the by-product of your thoughts and beliefs, you need first of all to
change the content or expression of your thoughts and beliefs. Transform-
ing your thoughts will transform your results, and this is done through con-
scious affirmations.
Negative thought patterns are repeated unknowingly again and again,
and the cycle has to be broken and brought to the light so that you can exam-
ine the contents of your thoughts and discard all that are negative and replace
them with positive affirmations. Examine for a moment, for example, your
deepest thoughts and beliefs about money. Are there any “imposed” beliefs
(e.g., phrases or statements that you were told in childhood) that could be
blocking your attainment of success?
Affirmations can help you to “clean the slate” so that there are no more
hidden obstacles in your path to successful trading. You have control over
your conscious mind, but the unconscious mind operates under the radar,
feeding you automatically all those thoughts and phrases you have been col-
lecting throughout the years. Your unconscious mind is also connected to
emotions, which make you react based on past programming. The subcon-
scious mind even has power over the conscious mind in cases of conflict. For
example, you decide that you want to be a successful trader and make lots of
money, but there’s a hidden belief that tells you that “being rich is evil.”
Even if you understand on a conscious level that this is not so, the power of
your earlier programming will win, and you will find yourself doing coun-
teractions against your primary goal, which is “making lots of money.”
I always tell people in my presentations that to be successful, you have
to have a plan, and before you can build your plan, you have to set goals,
both long and short term. Before you can take this step, you have to recog-
nize that we all have a different set of values and that at different times in
our lives we have to maintain balance. This balance often will shift as our
needs shift in different ways. You simply cannot have a goal that is outside
your values, such as saying that you want to make a million dollars trading

CHAPTER8 MINDOVERMATTERFORHUGEPROFITS 115
and subconsciously thinking that being rich is evil. Build your plan around
your goals and values, and then you will start to see a difference. You must
write this down. If you write your plan down with your long- and short-
term goals, your mind will build a mental picture around it, and you will
work subconsciously to accomplish it.
When you repeat positive statements about the changes that you want
to see in your life, you are reprogramming your subconscious mind. It takes
some time to replace the old statements and develop new ones. However, if
you keep repeating the new beliefs, your effort will bring about the desired
results, and they will become a part of your automatic behavior.
HOW DO YOU CREATE A POWERFUL AFFIRMATION?
First of all, the most important part is the wording; it has to be effective and
believable. If you are unable to believe what you are affirming, it will not
have enough power to create the change.
The second part is your mood when repeating the affirmation. If you
don’t believe it, feel doubts, or even have a cynical reaction to it, your feel-
ings about the affirmation will be negative, thus increasing the negative
patterns about the whole subject in your mind. For example, you could
affirm, “I am a successful trader.” However, it might not yet be completely
true, so you can’t relate to the statement, and it even could trigger a con-
trary reaction. In this case, you could add, “I am becoming a successful
trader, and I am in the process of making lots of money with my trading.”
This would bring the reality much closer and still be positive and dynamic.
The more you add positive emotions to your affirmations, the sooner they
will come to fruition in your life.
COUNT YOUR BLESSINGS!
Another important part is to act as if you have already reached the goal,
expressing gratitude for your blessings. You also can add other affirmations
of positive things that you already have in your life, looking around for all
the great blessings you have and transforming them into positive gratitude
affirmations:
“I am grateful for my health.”
“Thank you for my learning ability.”
This will boost your self-esteem and help in the process of building a pos-
itive environment for the affirmations to take root and grow up to your
desired results.

116 FOREXTRADINGSECRETS
When you open your heart and are grateful for what you already
have, you are telling the universe that you are ready and willing to receive
more! No matter what the circumstances of your actual life, there is
always something to be grateful for. By being grateful, you create a posi-
tive state of mind that will attract all that is positive to your life. Similar
attracts similar, either way, so better to do it in the right way to obtain the
right results!
Thoughts that you have frame how you experience things and people
around you. If you are negative, distrustful, and cynical and you are always
looking for the worst, then your feelings and actions will follow the same
path. You need to change the way you think in order to make self-improve-
ments. Thoughts that are gloomy and negative do not come out of thin air.
You have unknowingly been repeating negative thought patterns, and your
actions follow these patterns. Repeated use of positive affirmations will
break your negative thinking.
“I am worthy. I am positive. I am confident.”
“I am intuitive. I am a winner. I am intelligent.”
“I am patient. I am grateful.”
HOW DO YOU AVOID THE COMMON MISTAKES?
First of all, define exactly what you really want. The more precise your goal
is, the more chances it has to develop and be attained faster. It is your job
to find out what you really want in life and in your trading career. How far
do you want to go? Are you prepared for greater success, or will you settle
for a moderate but consistent income?
Then, know that it is perfectly right to want abundance, happiness, and
prosperity in your life. Sometimes it can be difficult to define a precise
goal because all the traditional and religious education and beliefs tend to
diminish your self-worth and your sense of deserving. You deserve to be
happy and prosperous and collect the fruits of your hard and dedicated
work.
How, then, can you define what is that you really want? You could start
by making a list of all the things you don’t want. What would you change?
What do you want to get rid of? Try making your list as complete as possi-
ble. You then can start creating the positive affirmations item by item that
will help you to change progressively all the things or situations you defi-
nitely don’t want to be a part of your life or your trading.
Choose to experience trading in a positive way every minute. You will
think more clearly, see the market more clearly, and trade better.

CHAPTER8 MINDOVERMATTERFORHUGEPROFITS 117
To trade like the pros, you have to learn to think like the pros. Condition
your subconscious to be in line with your desires. Encrypt those affirma-
tions into your brain to achieve lasting success.
POWER OF NETWORKING
Networking includes connecting with different cultures, ages, special-
interests groups, and networks themselves. Strong connections are con-
stantly being made—following up, keeping in touch, identifying and
making contact with spheres of influence, and forming strategic alliances
where everybody wins, as well as brainstorming groups. Networking is a
way of living, a life skill, more than something that you do with a purpose
in mind. This is one of the big reasons that I created the James Dicks
FOREX Network, so that as a FOREX trader, you can connect with other
individual traders who are trying to accomplish the same or similar success
trading in the FOREX. I encourage you to check it out at www.James-
Dicks.com. There are three basic and universal rules on which its principles
are grounded: abundance, reciprocity, and generosity.
Abundance.Opportunities are open and plenty for everyone. There
are many alternatives from which to chose, many careers, jobs,
customers, ideas, and so on.
Reciprocity.What you give out comes back to you multiplied. If you
give out help, you get back help; give out love, you get back love;
give out information, you get back information. It might not come
instantly or from the same person to whom it was given, but the
balance is always restored.
Generosity.The fundamental philosophy of all successful networkers
is to treat everyone the way they would like to be treated
themselves. This is the determination to give your time and share
your knowledge with other people, with the sole aim of helping
them to get answers to their questions or reach their goals,
without any expectation of receiving something back from them.
STRATEGIC ALLIANCES
Astrategic allianceis the union of two or more people who subscribe to an
agreement to undertake or develop certain activities and share common
goals with the purpose of obtaining benefits for every one of the partici-
pants. Such networks can grow with each member’s additional external

118 FOREXTRADINGSECRETS
activities, which then can be shared and added to the global diversity of age
groups, cultures, and interests, forming a stronger and much larger network
of networks and bringing to each of them under an enormous sphere of
influence that can be positive or negative.
People who know a lot in one or two areas in which they are usually
specialists are prone to becoming a sphere of influence in the networks in
which they participate. The interaction with other people who are also
spheres of influence in other subjects allows them to acquire a good general
knowledge of many areas.
The important qualities a network should possess are integrity, honesty,
ethics, and sincerity among all its participants because mutual trust is vital
for a network to exert a positive influence on all its members and obtain the
desired results.
BRAINSTORMING GROUPS
Those are formal or informal gatherings where people unite with a com-
mon and definite agenda of sharing mutual knowledge or creative ideas and
solutions or studying a particular subject in detail. Networking is basically
about information sharing. Thus every networker should be very well
informed and eager to update regularly the information he or she possesses
through every learning means available—reading books and the press,
using Internet resources, and paying attention to the information that is
shared through their own networks.
Communication in our times is becoming faster every day, thanks to
technology, and we have much less time to share adequate and useful infor-
mation with our peers. There is too much information to process and
absorb, and there are too many electronic solicitations throughout the day.
Thus, creating or participating in a network is more important than ever.
The following are two of the most important places to engage in
networking in the trading scene:
Forums.Trading forums are a source of invaluable information. There
are various levels and focus in each of them, some specialize in
trading systems, others in general information for newest
participants, and still others in all the different personal
experiences of seasoned traders as well as newcomers. This
sharing enriches each individual’s perception, and it also allows
you to find other people who are working in the same field, going
through similar steps in the evolution of their trading career, and
get some advice from the ones who have already been through the

CHAPTER8 MINDOVERMATTERFORHUGEPROFITS 119
pitfalls of the industry. Although trading is mostly a solitary
activity, because of the focus needed, creating relationships with
other traders is very important to have an adequate perspective.
Mentored trading communities.Some of the most experienced traders
can decide to create trading groups, in which they give back to
others in terms of knowledge, techniques, and intuition, all that
they have learned and applied throughout their trading life. Also,
groups of traders who share the same system can gather to trade
together and compare their own results, thus the James Dicks
FOREX Network.

This page intentionally left blank

4
P A R T
FUNDAMENTAL
ANALYSIS

This page intentionally left blank

9
C H A P T E R
ECONOMICS
WHAT DOES ECONOMIC RELEASE MEAN?
An economic news release is a press report issued by central banks, the
Federal Reserve, governments, large financial institutions, and research
and analytical organisms stating economic decisions and data that are
the result of their periodic calculations to gauge performance of an econ-
omy. Such releases are usually done rendered public through the main
financial press.
FOREX traders, especially those who directly trade the news, are very
attentive to the results and data offered and apply fundamental analysis to
interpret those figures. Then they act on the market’s reaction to the data.
The main areas of economic releases are divided into balance of pay-
ments; gross domestic product (GDP) and output reports; confidence and
sentiment reports; leading indicators; prices, salaries, and wages; spending
figures; monetary policy; and employment and housing.
FUNDAMENTAL ANALYSIS
Fundamental analysis is usually centered on financial and economic data, but
it also can be influenced by political decisions. In this way, a trader can get an
idea of how strong the offer and demand of the currency in question can be.
Fundamental analysis includes examination of the revision of macroeco-
nomic indicators, the stock markets, and political decisions (such decisions
influence confidence in the governments and the climate of stability of the
123

124 FOREXTRADINGSECRETS
country in question). The greater trust there is in a government, along with
rising macroeconomic indicators, the higher will be the level of confidence
of a trader in making the necessary decisions.
In determining fundamentals, traders consider rates of growth, the
GDP, types of interest, the existing inflation rate in a country, the monetary
mass, the foreign currency reserves, and productivity. Sometimes govern-
ments, through their central banks, try to exert an influence on the markets
with the purpose of preventing their currencies from getting too far away
from a certain level and, in this way, avoid imbalances. These interventions
usually have a remarkable impact, but they are usually of short duration.
To avoid imbalances, a central bank could enter the currency market as
an investor, buying or selling its currency against another. Sometimes sev-
eral central banks might intervene in the market together.
Traders consider the expectations on the possible evolution of a cur-
rency or several currencies based on macroeconomic factors, the news
about a particular currency, or the potential events that can occur in a coun-
try that would have an influence on the quotation of its currency. Therefore,
traders look for macroeconomic variables to be able to predict the future
behavior of a currency.
To this end, governments publish the frequency and evolution of these
macroeconomic variables so that traders can see the previous result, the
forecast, and the government’s release, along with any revisions of prior
data that was released in the previous month. When the variable figures do
not agree with the forecast, this usually produces abrupt movements in the
market that will provide benefits for the trader.
Among the variables released, several are important in primary analysis:
Economy growth.This is usually gauged through the quarterly
published GDP figure. This variable is important because it will
tell us how the economy of a country is evolving. When you see
that the GDP of a country is growing, you are aware that there is
movement of capital, which shows higher consumption and
savings. Companies then are encouraged by that consumption and
investments that can be made. Excessive growth, however, would
lead to inflationary tensions, and therefore, there could be an
increase in rates from central banks. At first, a higher than
forecast GDP would push the currency quotation from a country
to the rising side, whereas a lower GDP would harm the currency
quotation and cause it to drop.
Price developments—inflation.The appreciation or depreciation of a
currency against another is usually neutralized by the change in

CHAPTER9 ECONOMICS 125
differential of the interest rates. Currencies with higher interest
rates are often seen as more attractive owing to the possible
containment of inflation and an implicit higher profitability. This
variable is released monthly. A higher than expected consumer
price index (CPI) will push the exchange rate upward, whereas a
lower CPI will push the exchange rate downward.
Unemployment.This indicator usually is difficult to predict, but its
weight is important and has immediate impact on both the income
and consumption of families. If the nonfarm unemployment
figures are greater than estimated, then the currency of the
country goes to the floor. If the rate of unemployment is lower
than estimated, that helps the appreciation of the currency. The
same applies to the hourly earnings indicator.
Trade balance.The equilibrium point of a currency quote occurs when
a country has a stable balance of payments. When the country has
a trade deficit, it then experiences a reduction in its currency
reserves, causing a depreciation in the value of its currency. It is
necessary to consider that a cheap currency favors exports of the
country but increases import prices. In midterm, this causes a drop
in imports and an increase in exports, thus, as a result, stabilizing
the trade balance and producing an appreciation of the currency.
Stock market.Variables such as growth, inflation, unemployment, and
trade balance are not the only indicators that can favor the
appreciation or depreciation of a currency. Every day, currency
evolution has a greater correlation with asset markets, especially
with stocks. When investors consider a country as a good place to
invest, that market of stocks or assets will be boosted by the
arrival of other currencies, and therefore, the value of the
country’s currency will remain robust.
Thus, when you see that the variables are positive, this will encourage an
increase in the quotation of the currency, but if the variables are negative,
this will indicate a decrease in the currency.
DOW THEORY
The basic principles of the Dow theory are
1. The averages emphasize everything—the news, data, and inclusively
misfortunes or wars.This leaves us with a clear view of the tendency
of the market.

126 FOREXTRADINGSECRETS
2. The markets move in tendencies.Every market has a tendency, with
these three types—primary, secondary, and tertiary.
● Primary trend.This trend usually lasts more than a year, and
movements are extensive and constant.
● Secondary trend.This trend can last months, but fluctuations of
this trend are included in the primary trend. Any corrections that
may have been made are one-third or two-thirds of the previous
section and are usually 50 percent.
● Tertiary or minor trend.These are variations within the secondary
trend.
3. Principle of confirmation.The averages would have to confirm a
possible change of tendency, as much to the upside as to the
downside. The movement in only one of the averages does not
confirm, in itself, a change of effective tendency. However, you can
see in advance how by using two moving averages, you can confirm a
possible change.
4. The volume moves with the tendency.The movements in favor of a
trend will always be accompanied by a volume greater than the
potential correction. If you are in a bull-market phase, the volume
will be increased in the up moves and will be less in the descents. If
you are in a bear-market phase, the volume goes up in a fall and
declines in rises.
5. The tendency will be effective while there is no change confirmation.
This is intended to avoid premature exits of a trend. A trend will
continue its effectiveness if there is no change in the averages. This
allows us to follow the advice: “Let profits run; cut losses short.” A
lateral trend or a possible correction does not indicate a change in the
main trend.
6. The trends have three phases.Phases of a bullish trend:
● Phase of accumulation.In this phase, investors who think that an
economic recovery is possible enter the market aggressively,
considering that this has a rising potential. These investors, who
usually are better informed, enter very aggressively when the
currency does not have the attention of the mass media. Even so,
the feeling is of discouragement and therefore is pessimistic. The
buying positions are accumulated by investors who are better
informed until the demand starts pushing, causing the quotes to
rise. These movements can be considered by the public in general
as a bounce from the bearish tendency.

CHAPTER9 ECONOMICS 127
● Phase of tendency or fundamental.This phase is characterized by
an improvement in the economic conditions, where the buys by
traders are growing. In this phase, many traders realize that a
change has happened in the main tendency, and they enter
progressively. The movements of this phase usually are ample.
● Phase of distribution or speculation.At this stage, the economic
conditions are usually very good. In this phase, a large number of
traders will enter the market. Strong rises in the currency start
appearing in the media. Traders who entered in the first phase
begin to sell their positions because they believe that the currency
has already gone too far and anticipate a fall.
Phases of a bearish trend:
● Phase of distribution.Traders who have been participating in the
increase from the start of the first phase start unloading their
positions. At this time, the news is still good, and the market
correction that occurs is considered by the public to be minor or
intermediary inside the rising tendency. In this phase, traders still
wait for a strong bullish movement.
● Phase of panic.In this phase, the selling strength is highly superior
to the buying strength, and the depreciations pile up. Panic sells
often occur. Traders usually will sell strong positions to the market,
provoking very sharp falls in which many traders lose their money.
After this phase, either a sideways correction or a recovery of the
bearish tendency usually occurs, which is often minimal. In this
phase, there is usually a high volume in the descent that is often
smaller than the volumes that occurred in the rising phase.
● Phase of discouragement.In this phase, the news about the
currency starts getting worse, but it may not have any influence on
prices. Traders who are in this phase are usually those who held up
their positions during the phase of panic or those who bought late,
believing that the prices were still low. The media stops paying
attention to the currency, and falls start smoothing out.
FUNDAMENTAL INDICATORS
ECONOMIC INDICATORS FOR THE UNITED STATES
● Balance of payments
● Current account balance

128 FOREXTRADINGSECRETS
● Trade balance
● Net foreign security purchases
● Goods and services imports
● Export price index
● GDP and output report
● GDP
● Institute of Supply Management (ISM) manufacturing
● Philadelphia Fed survey
● Empire State manufacturing survey
● Durable goods orders
● Business inventories
● Wholesale inventories
● Factory orders
● Industry productivity and costs
● Capacity utilization
● Industrial production
● Richmond Fed manufacturing survey
● Chicago Purchasing Managers Index (PMI)
● ISM nonmanufacturing
● Energy Information Administration (EIA) crude oil stocks
● Monthly budget statement
● Confidence and sentiments report
● Consumer confidence
● University of Michigan sentiment
● ABC consumer comfort index
● Fed beige book
● Leading indicators
● Empire State manufacturing survey
● Chicago PMI
● ISM nonmanufacturing
● Richmond Fed manufacturing survey
● Philadelphia Fed survey
● Prices, Salary, and Wages and Spending Figures
● Personal consumption expenditures (PCE) deflator
● CPI and core CPI

CHAPTER9 ECONOMICS 129
● Producer price index (PPI) and PPI core
● Employment
● Nonfarm payrolls
● Unemployment
● Manufacturing payrolls and average hourly earnings
● Personal consumption expenditures
● Industry productivity and costs
● GDP price index
● ISM manufacturing and prices paid
● Personal income
● Import price index
● Export price index
● Advance retail sales
● Monetary policy
● Fed Open Market Committee (FOMC) rate decision
● Minutes of the FOMC meeting
● Fed governor speaks
● Fed chairman speaks
● Beige book
● Employment
● Employment situation
● Nonfarm payrolls
● Unemployment
● Manufacturing payrolls and average hourly earnings
● Unemployment rate
● Personal income
● Housing
● Building permits
● Construction spending
● Housing starts
● Mortgage Bankers Association (MBA) mortgage applications
● Pending home sales
● New home sales
● Existing home sales
● National Association of Home Builders (NAHB) housing market
index

130 FOREXTRADINGSECRETS
DESCRIPTION AND EFFECT OF EVENTS
Gross National Product (GNP)
The GNP measures the economic performance of the global economy.
This indicator, on a macro scale, is the sum of consumption, investment
and governmental spending, and net volume of transactions. The GNP
refers to the sum of all the goods and services produced by U.S. residents,
either in the country or abroad. The higher this number is, the better it is
for the currency.
Gross Domestic Product (GDP)
The GDP refers to the sum of all the goods and services produced in the
United States by domestic or foreign companies. The differences between
GNP and GDP are nominal in the case of U.S. economy. GDP figures are
more popular outside the United States. As a means to make things easier
to compare the performances of different economies, the United States
also issue figures for GDP. The higher this number is, the better it is for
the currency.
Consumption Spending
Consumption is possible thanks to the personal and eventual income. The
decision of consumers to spend or save is psychological in nature. Con-
sumer confidence is also measured as an important indicator of the ten-
dency for consumers who receive eventual income (additional income to
that needed for basic survival) to exchange their saving behavior for a
spending behavior. The higher the consumption spending index, or con-
sumer confidence, is, the better it is for the currency.
Investment Spending
Investment spending or private domestic gross spending is made up of
fixed investments and inventories. The higher the number is, the better it is
for the currency.
Government Spending
Government spending has a strong influence because of its size and its
impact on other economic indicators owing to special expenditures. For
example, the military expenses of the United States had a significant role
in totality of employment in the United States until 1990. The expense
cuts in defense matters that occurred at that time increased short-term
unemployment figures. The higher the number is, the better it is for the
currency.

CHAPTER9 ECONOMICS 131
Net Trade
The net trade volume is another major component of GNP. International-
ization and the economic and political developments that have occurred
since 1980 have had a strong impact on the ability of the United States
to compete abroad. The trade deficit of past decades has diminished the
evolution of the global GNP. This GNP can be examined from two points
of view: product flow and cost flow. The higher the net trade figure is, the
better it is for the currency.
Industrial Production
The industrial production indicator is given by the total production of fac-
tories, utilities, and mines of a nation. From a fundamental point of view, it
is an important indicator that reflects the strength of the economy and, as an
extrapolation, the strength of a specific currency. For this reason, FOREX
traders use this economic indicator as a potential trading signal. The higher
the number is, the better it is for the currency.
Capacity Utilization
Industrial capacity utilization consists of the total industrial production
divided by total production capacity. The term refers to the maximum level
of production that a factory can output under normal operational conditions.
In general, utilization of capacity is not a major indicator in the
FOREX market. However, there are situations where its economic implica-
tions are useful for fundamental analysis. A “normal” figure for a stable
economy is 81.5 percent. If the number is 85 percent or more, the data sug-
gest that industrial production is overheating and that the economy is reach-
ing its maximum capacity.
High figures of capacity use tend to predate inflation, and the expecta-
tion in the FOREX market is that the central bank will increase interest
rates as means to avoid or fight inflation.
Generally speaking, the higher the capacity utilization figure is, the
better it is for the currency.
Factory Orders
This indicator refers to the total factory orders of durable and nondurable
goods. Nondurable goods are food, clothing, light industrial products, and
products that are designed for the maintenance of the durable goods.
Durable goods orders are analyzed separately. This indicator has little sig-
nificance for FOREX traders, but in general, the higher this figure is, the
better it will be for the currency.

132 FOREXTRADINGSECRETS
Durable Goods Orders
This consists of products whose useful life is greater than three years.
Examples of durable goods are vehicles, electrical appliances, furniture,
jewelry, and toys. Orders are divided in four main categories: primary met-
als, machinery, electrical machinery, and transportation.
To mitigate the volatility that pertains to big military orders, the indi-
cator includes discrimination between defense and nondefense orders. This
indicator is quite important for the FOREX market because it gives a good
indication of consumer confidence.
Given that durable goods have a higher cost than nondurable goods, a
higher figure in this indicator shows the spending propensity of consumers.
For this reason, a high number generally is bullish for the domestic currency.
Business Inventories
Business inventories consist of items produced and stored for future sale.
The compilation of this information brings little surprise to the market.
Furthermore, financial handling helps to maintain control on business
inventories in unsurpassed ways. Because of this, the importance of this
indicator for FOREX traders is limited.
Construction Data
Construction data represent a significant group of indicators that are
included in calculation of the U.S. GDP. Additionally, housing traditionally
has been the engine that brought the U.S. economy out of the recessions
that occurred after World War II. These indicators are classified into three
main categories:
1. Housing starts and permits
2. Single-family home sales, new and existing
3. Construction expenses
The construction indicators are cyclic and very sensitive to interest-rate
levels (thus to mortgage rates as well) and to the available-income level.
However, low interest rates by themselves probably can’t generate a high
demand for housing. As was demonstrated by the situation in the early
1990s, despite a historical low level of mortgage rates in the United States,
housing barely increased in a marginal way as a result of the lack of employ-
ment security in a weak economy. In addition, despite the recession in
2000–2001, the cost of homes, for example, in California practically didn’t
go lower.

CHAPTER9 ECONOMICS 133
Home starts of between 1.5 and 2 million units reflect a strong econ-
omy, whereas a figure of a million units suggests that the economy is going
through a recession. Thus the higher the home figures are, the better result
they will have on the currency.
Inflation Indicators
Traders watch inflationary data very closely because the preferred way to
fight inflation is to raise interest rates. Higher interest rates tend to give
support to the local currency. To measure inflation, traders use the eco-
nomic tools that will be analyzed below. By itself, a higher inflation rate is
bearish for a currency.
Producer Price Index (PPI)
The PPI is compiled from most sectors of the economy, such as manufac-
turing, mining, and agriculture. The sample used to calculate the index
groups nearly 3400 articles (commodities). Some of the proportions of the
most important groups that are used for calculation of the index are food:
24 percent; fuel: 7 percent; vehicles: 7 percent; and clothing: 6 percent.
Unlike CPI, the PPI does not include imported goods, services, or taxes.
The higher this number is, the better it is for the currency.
Consumer Price Index (CPI)
The CPI reflects the average change in retail prices for a basic basket of
products and services. CPI data are compiled from a price sample for food,
clothing, fuel, transport, and medical services that people acquire daily.
The proportions of the most important groups for calculation of the index
are housing: 38 percent; food: 19 percent; fuel; 8 percent, and vehicles:
7 percent. The higher the CPI is, the better it is for the currency.
Even though the Federal Reserve takes the position that the indexes
tend to exaggerate the strength of inflation, both the PPI and the CPI are
tools that help traders to gauge inflationary activity.
GNP Implicit Deflator
This index is calculated by dividing the actual GNP dollar figure by the
constant GNP dollar figure. The higher the number is, the better it is for the
currency.
GDP Implicit Deflator
This index is calculated by dividing the actual GDP dollar figure by the
constant GDP dollar figure. Both GNP and GDP implicit deflation indexes

134 FOREXTRADINGSECRETS
are released quarterly, along with the respective GNP and GDP figures.
These deflation indexes generally are considered to be the most significant
measurement of inflation. As long as this number is high, it is better for the
currency.
Merchandise Trade Balance
This is one of the most important economic indicators. Its value can trigger
long-duration changes in monetary and international policies. The trade
balance consists of the net difference between exports and imports of a par-
ticular economy. The number includes six categories:
1. Food
2. Basic materials and industrial supplies
3. Consumer goods
4. Vehicles
5. Capital goods
6. Other merchandises
A separated indicator that pertains to this group is the merchandise
trade balance of the United States with Japan. The higher the merchandise
trade balance is, the better it is for the currency.
Employment Indicators
The unemployment rate is a significant economic indicator in many areas.
This measures, naturally, the solidity of a country’s economy. Unemploy-
ment rate is a delayed economic indicator. It is important to remember this,
especially in times of economic recession. While people are focused on
health and recovery of the working sector, employment is the last indicator
to react.
When an economic contraction causes a job shortage, it takes time to
regenerate a psychological confidence about an economic recovery at man-
agement levels before new jobs are added. At an individual level, the bet-
terment of the employment situation can be clouded when new jobs are
added in small companies and thus don’t reflect completely in the data.
Employment reports are significant for the financial markets in general
and for the FOREX in particular. These data are considered very seriously
in the FOREX during transitional periods of recovery and contraction. The
reason behind this importance in extreme economic situations lies in the
panorama it paints about economic health and the degree of maturity of a

CHAPTER9 ECONOMICS 135
business cycle. A decreasing unemployment figure signals a mature cycle,
whereas the opposite occurs when the unemployment indicator increases.
The greater the unemployment data are, the worse it is for the currency.
Nonfarm Payroll (NFP)
In general, the most used employment figure is not the monthly unemploy-
ment rate, which is given as a percentage, but instead the nonfarm payroll.
This figure is calculated as the proportion of the difference between the
total labor force and the employed labor force divided by the total labor
force [(TLF – ELF)/FLT].
These data are complex, but they generate a lot of information. In the
FOREX, the standard indicators watched by traders are the unemployment
rate, the manufacturer payrolls, the nonfarm payroll, average income, and
average working week. Generally speaking, the most significant employ-
ment data are the manufacturer and nonfarm payrolls, followed by the
unemployment rate. A higher NFP is better for the currency
Employment Cost Index (ECI)
The ECI measures salaries and inflation and provides a comprehensive
analysis of the compensation given to workers, including salaries, commis-
sions, and wages, as well as additional benefits. The higher the number is,
the better it is for the currency.
Consumer Spending Indicators
These consumption indicators are based on data that are relative to the volume
of retail sales and are important for FOREX traders because they show the
demand level from consumers and their sentiment, which represents initial
data necessary for calculation of other indicators such as GNP and GDP. The
higher the consumer spending indicators are, the better it is for the currency.
Retail Sales
Retail sales are a significant indicator of consumer spending for FOREX
traders because the figure shows the strength of consumer demand and at
the same time consumer confidence. As an economic indicator, retail sales
are particularly important in the United States. Unlike other countries, such
as Japan, the core of the U.S. economy is the consumer. If consumers have
enough additional income or enough credit because of it, more merchan-
dise will be produced or imported. The figures for retail sales create an eco-
nomic process of impulse to the manufacturing sector. The seasonal aspect

136 FOREXTRADINGSECRETS
also is important for this economic indicator. The months that are watched
more closely by FOREX traders as to retail sales are December because of
the Christmas holidays and September, the month of return to school. Also,
November is becoming a more and more important month owing to the
changes in previous post-Christmas sales to pre-December sale days.
Another interesting phenomenon occurred in the United States. Despite
the economic recession of the early 1990s, the volume of retail sales was
unusually high. The profit margin, however, was much smaller. This occurred
because consumers turned their preferences to discount stores.
Traders watch retail sales closely to evaluate the global strength of the
economy and thus the strength of the currency. This indicator is issued
monthly. The higher the number is, the better it is for the currency.
Consumer Sentiment
Consumer sentiment is the result of a household survey designed to mea-
sure directly the individual tendency to spend money to increase or main-
tain at the same level the expenses related to the satisfaction of actual
household needs and thus implies a gauge of the actual labor market. The
higher this number is, the better it is for the currency.
Auto Sales
Despite the importance of the automotive industry in terms of production
and sales, the level of vehicle sales is not an economic indicator that is
widely taken into account by FOREX traders. American vehicle manufac-
turers have experienced a long and constant loss of market share that only
started reversing in early 1990s. However, the internationalization of vehi-
cle manufacturing has grown more and more, given that American vehicles
are being assembled outside the United States and German vehicles are
being built inside the United States.
Owing to this confusion, vehicle sales figures can’t be used easily in
FOREX fundamental analysis.
Leading Indicators
The following economic indicators are leading indicators:
● Weekly average production of manufacturing workers
● Weekly average of state employment claims
● New orders for consumer goods and materials (inflation-adjusted)
● Sales performance (companies that receive slower deliveries from
suppliers)

CHAPTER9 ECONOMICS 137
● Contracts and factory orders for products and equipment
(inflation-adjusted)
● New building permits
● Changes in the nondelivered factory orders and in durable goods
● Changes in prices of important materials
The higher these figures are, the better it is for the currency, except for the
weekly state employment claims (unemployment claims). The higher those
unemployment levels are, the worse it is for the currency.
Personal Income
Personal income is the income received by individuals, nonprofit institu-
tions, and private investment funds. The elements of this indicator include
commissions and wages, income from rent, profits, dividends, interest
earnings, and payment transfers (Social Security, state unemployment
insurance, and veteran’s benefits). Commissions and wages reflect the
underlying economic conditions.
This indicator is vital for the sales sector. Without an adequate personal
income and a tendency to buy, durable and nondurable goods purchases by
consumers will be limited. For FOREX traders, personal income is not sig-
nificant. However, when it is high, this is positive for the currency.
JAPAN’S MONETARY POLICY
During the long economic depression in Japan from the beginning of the
1980’s through the fourth quarter of 1991, monetary policy essentially con-
sisted of the application of a very low interest rate since 1995, a zero inter-
est rate since 1999, and a quantitative easing since 2001. The purpose of
such a policy was to lower expectations about future interest rates.
However, there is a problem because a more effective way to reduce
interest rates and at the same time stimulate the economy would be to
increase expectations of the private sector about future price levels. Quan-
titative easing can induce expectations of a higher price level, which, in
turn, can lead to a depreciation of the current value of the currency, espe-
cially if the quantitative easing is expected to be permanent. The commit-
ment to a zero interest rate until inflation was controlled was not effective
in inducing inflationary expectations or escaping from a liquidity trap.
Especially between 1998 and 2003, the policies of the Bank of Japan
were not helpful in fighting deflation, which can be a very costly mistake.

138 FOREXTRADINGSECRETS
A zero interest rate implies that there is no other way to use the overnight
interest rate as an instrument of monetary policy.
The monetary policy meetings of the Bank of Japan produce a guide-
line for money-market operations in the periods between meetings, and this
is written as a target for the overnight interest rate, which is to be achieved
with open-market operations. After the March 19, 2001, meeting, the oper-
ating target was changed to a target on overnight bank reserves, which had
experienced a significant increase, thus generating a zero interest rate.
The Bank of Japan executes open-market transactions two or three
times a day. As it intervenes in the money market, it represents an interest-
rate target operating procedure, which helps it to fix the noncollateralized
overnight interest rate in the Interbank market. Additionally, the Bank of
Japan has a steady program of buying Japanese government bonds.
Since 1998, the monetary policy meetings of the Bank of Japan have
been held on a preannounced but somewhat irregular schedule, usually
around the tenth and twenty-fifth of each month. Interest-rate decisions are
announced immediately after the meeting. No press conference or further
information or discussion is given. The minutes of the meetings are
released after six weeks or more. The Bank of Japan issues a monthly
report of recent economic and financial developments that summarizes all
the economic information that has been used in the discussions during the
monetary policy meeting.
JAPAN ECONOMIC INDICATORS
The Economic Structure of Japan
The economy of Japan can be compared with the economy of developed
European countries. Japanese companies see financing from banks as more
reliable than the use of market of equities and bonds. Employment, at least
in the big companies, is usually a lifetime career. The economy can be
divided in two large groups: multinational corporations and small family
enterprises.
The main indicators of Japan’s economy are the balance of payments,
the CPI, the GDP, the industrial production index, leading and coincident
indices of business conditions, machinery orders, money supply, retail sales,
unemployment, the wholesale price index (WPI), and the Tankan index.
Tankan Index
This index is based on the surveys that Japanese companies hold four times
a year. It shows business confidence. The Tankan index is one of the key
indicators of the Japanese economy.

CHAPTER9 ECONOMICS 139
A positive economic trend usually is shown by Tankan values higher
than 0, which is considered as normal; however, higher values provide good
support for the yen and are good for the entire economy of Japan.
Money Supply
The money supply strongly affects the rate of the Japanese currency, the
yen. If the supply is growing slowly, the Bank of Japan needs to decrease
the interest rate, which has a negative influence on the yen. In the same
way, deflation (represented by a fall in prices) has a negative effect on the
Japanese currency.
FOREX CURRENCY CARRY TRADE
Thecarry tradeis a well-known FOREX strategy that takes profit from the
different interest rates between two currencies; if one currency has a rela-
tively low interest rate, it can be sold against another currency that has a
higher interest rate, and the trader will profit from the positive difference
that results. Every day, speculators have a steady deposit of positive inter-
est, or swap, in their trading accounts, and this can be an important incen-
tive for traders. For example, if you open a position in a FOREX currency
pair where the higher-interest currency is 7 percent and the lower-interest
currency is 2 percent, the swap can yield 5 percent as long as the market
doesn’t change.
The term carry trade without further modification refers directly to
currency carry trades: Investors borrow low-yielding and lend high-yield-
ing currencies. It is principally correlated with global financial and
exchange-rate stability, and its use decreases when there are global liquid-
ity shortages.
However, even when the differences between interest rates can be prof-
ited on, important risks still remain. The market obviously still can change
and go against the trader’s position, although the continuous daily rise in the
interest amount in the account may help to attenuate the potential losses.
With the exceptionally high leverages that are used to profit from those dif-
ferences, even a small variation at a given moment can lead to huge losses.
THE YEN CARRY TRADE
In earlier years, many trillions of dollars were accumulated on the yen carry
trade. Interest rates set by the Bank of Japan allowed profitability on bor-
rowing the Japanese yen to acquire other currencies.

140 FOREXTRADINGSECRETS
For several years in the recent past, Japan had a 0 percent interest rate.
The rate was increased to 0.5 percent but remained much lower than the
rates of other countries. On the other hand, Japan has a very high level of
savings, around US$15 billion (much higher than the total U.S. GDP).
Because of the low interest rate, Japanese investors save in other curren-
cies, accumulating around US$6 trillion in foreign assets. This, in turn,
increases the value of those foreign currencies. Other investors have bor-
rowed the yen to invest in the global markets. However, in the recent
months, the lowering of interest rates in all major currencies has caused the
yen carry trade to begin unwinding.
UNWINDING OF THE YEN CARRY TRADE
The yen carry trade can only be profitable if there is stability in most cur-
rencies or if they are rising against the yen, especially the U.S. dollar. If the
dollar falls, the trade would bring up a loss independent of the positive
interest-rate difference.
Now that the United States, Europe, and other countries have lowered
their interest rates, this signifies the end of the carry trade. The global econ-
omy has entered a recession. There is a slowdown in the overall economies
of the world. Thus the interest-rate differential has narrowed, and there is no
longer an incentive to borrow the Japanese currency. Local investors have
started to sell their investments in dollars and euros and take their money
back to Japan. The yen has started to increase in value.
This increases the risk of losing a huge amount of money on those
trades as the yen is rises against the dollar and the euro, and as a conse-
quence, people have started selling their foreign investments, which, in
turn, reevaluates the yen even more as the demand is increased.
The other currencies depreciate, and this harms Japanese exports
because they become more expensive, thus reducing the general demand
and leading to a lower growth in the economy and possible deflation.
INTERVENTIONS
Interventions are the result of decisions by central banks to intervene in
the economy by using their reserves and buying or selling their foreign-
currency assets in order to stabilize the value of their own currency. Inter-
ventions represent quite an interesting opportunity for traders because

CHAPTER9 ECONOMICS 141
they can be an indicator that the currency involved has a lower value with
respect to fundamentals, especially if what triggers the intervention is
highly negative, such as the national debt or a natural catastrophe.
The sharp fall of one currency leads the counterpart asset to rise fast,
and thus traders can speculate to what extent there could be an intervention,
which would have as a result a series of price movements in the near term.
They can then take a position previous to the potential intervention and
make profits on those moves, exiting after the effects of the intervention
have ended. This can be very risky, however, because such traders are oper-
ating against the current trend, and large capitals losses could result in a
very short period of time because of the fast-moving market.
Some indicators will signal if there is a possibility of intervention.
Interventions usually will occur at the same price level as previous inter-
ventions. This is not always true, though, because sometimes the interven-
tion is canceled by the central bank if it costs too much. Another clue can
be found in speeches by finance officials, such as announcements or
threats of possible future interventions. Those words sometimes can be
enough to give impulse to the markets. However, if there is no reaction,
with time, such announcements will have lesser and lesser impact because
their credibility decrease. Finally, FOREX analysts can determine fair esti-
mations of levels where an intervention may occur, especially those who
work for the main banks or investment companies.
How can you trade when an intervention is occurring? First of all, you
should identify the previous intervention levels and evaluate the actual
expected price level to make your decision. Then, of course, always trade
with a stop loss and a target level so as to limit losses and lock in some prof-
its. Leave enough room on the stops though, to mitigate against sharp
movements that may occur after the intervention. The targets for profits
should be set at the same levels that were attained in the previous interven-
tion. Finally, open your trade with a reduced position size. Remember that
you will be trading against the main long-term trend, so there are high risks
of a margin call if the intervention doesn’t happen during the time span that
you have considered.
Although interventions can be extremely profitable, trading them is
mostly for pure speculators. There are several ways to identify the moment
when an intervention is most likely to happen, but it is always a good idea
to be prepared by using a very low leverage and a well-planned smart
money management through the use of stop losses and the setting of targets
to lock profits.

142 FOREXTRADINGSECRETS
GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (GDP)
The gross domestic product (GDP), also called gross domestic income
(GDI), is one of the instruments that allows measuring the income and out-
put of the national economy of a particular country. It represents the total
value in dollars of all the goods and services produced in a given year
inside that country.
The most common approach to measuring and quantifying GDP is the
expenditure method:
GDP(cid:2)consumption(cid:5)gross investment (cid:5)government spending
(cid:5)(exports (cid:4)imports)
Consumption and investment in this equation represent the expendi-
tures on final goods and services. The net exports (exports minus imports)
adjust this by subtracting the part of this expenditure that is not produced
domestically (the imports) and adding back the income coming from what
has been produced locally (the exports).
GDP per capita is often used as an indicator of standard of living in a
given country; the explanation is that theoretically all citizens benefit from
an increase in their country’s economic production. The advantage of using
this figure is that GDP is measured frequently, and information is given
four times a year. The standard of living in different countries can be com-
pared because GDP is measured in practically every country of the world.
Finally, the calculations are consistent between countries, so the same
things are measured and the comparisons can be done at the same level.
However, per capita GDP is not really a strict measure of the standard
of living because it measures particular types of economic activity within
a country, such as exports and imports. For example, if a country exports
100 percent of its production but does not import anything, the GDP still
would be high, but the standard of living would be poorer.
GDP rather is used as such an indicator because the standard of living
tends to increase when GDP per capita increases. It is not a direct measure
but a relative measure. Also, it can be used to gauge working productivity.
An alternative to GDP as a country’s economic health measurement is the
human development index (HDI).

CHAPTER9 ECONOMICS 143
TRADING THE NEWS
If you are considering trading the news, subscribing to a timely news feed
is paramount. There are several free services around and many public
media that announce the economic results almost as soon as they are
released. However, obtaining the data exactly at the moment they are issued
is of great importance in determining the success or failure of a news trad-
ing strategy.
Usually, the main financial media will offer both free and paid news
services, with some differences as to the timing of the release. It is also cru-
cial to select a trustable news source because sometimes the media tend to
be slanted toward one side or the other, thus influencing the public through
rumors or distorted expectations previous to the releases, especially in what
concerns forecast figures.
The continuous operability of the FOREX market and the fact that eco-
nomic data are always being released throughout the day from any of its
participant countries constitute a great advantage. Besides, the currency
markets not only will react to economic data coming from a single source
but also to any financial or political news coming from every corner of the
world. Usually there are always at least six or seven important releases
daily that will affect any of the eight major currencies from the countries
that traders follow more closely. This adds up to many opportunities to
trade the news.
The following are the eight major currencies: U.S. dollar (USD), euro
(EUR), British pound (GBP), Japanese yen (JPY), Swiss franc (CHF),
Canadian dollar (CAD), Australian dollar (AUD), and New Zealand dollar
(NZD). Some of the derivatives with the greatest liquidity, based on those
currencies, are the following currency pairs: EUR/USD, USD/JPY,
AUD/USD, GBP/JPY, EUR/CHF, and CHF/JPY.
When trading the news, you can easily choose which currency and
economic releases you will be paying attention to. However, since the
U.S. dollar is mostly present as counterpart of all currency trades, U.S.
economic releases usually have the heaviest impact on the behavior of
the markets.
Trading news is not as easy as it may seem. There are the actual figures
reported, but the previous forecasts and rumors have to be taken into
account, and revisions to previous releases may change the picture com-
pletely. Extreme volatility at news time makes the trades harder to achieve.
One has to be very careful not to be stopped out before the move has been
given a chance to progress.

144 FOREXTRADINGSECRETS
There is a saying, “Buy the rumor; sell the fact.” You have to keep up
with what is getting the focus of the market at any moment. The effects of
economic releases can last for hours and even days after they have been
issued.
The most common way to trade the news is to examine the charts pre-
vious to a particular big number to be released and look for periods of con-
solidation in preparation for that release. You then trade the breakout that
ensues after the figures have been made public. Since the effects usually
last for more than one day, you can either trade news intraday or based on
the daily charts in a more conservative way.
WHEN ARE THE NEWS RELEASES ISSUED?
If you are planning to trade news releases, you should pay extra attention to
the following times based on each market involved. The following list
shows the approximate times (Eastern Time) when the most important eco-
nomic releases are usually published.
Market Hours
Country Currency Time (EST)
United States USD 8:30–10:00
Japan JPY 18:50–23:30
Canada CAD 7:00–8:30
United Kingdom GBP 2:00–4:30
Italy EUR 3:45–5:00
Germany EUR 2:00–6:00
France EUR 2:45–4:00
Switzerland CHF 1:45–5:30
New Zealand NZD 16:45–21:00
Australia AUD 17:30–19:30
APPROXIMATE VARIATION IN PIPS BASED ON THE NEWS
In the following 20 minutes after the news is released:
Unemployment (non-farm payrolls) 124 pips
Interest rates (rate decisions from the Fed) 74 pips
Trade balance 64 pips

CHAPTER9 ECONOMICS 145
Inflation (CPI) 44 pips
Retail sales 43 pips
GDP 43 pips
Current account balance 43 pips
Durable goods 39 pips
TIC report or foreign acquisitions of U.S. assets 33 pips
In the continuation of the day when the news is released:
Unemployment (nonfarm payrolls) 193 pips
Interest rates (rate decisions from the Fed) 140 pips
TIC report or foreign acquisitions of U.S. assets 132 pips
Trade balance 129 pips
Current account balance 27 pips
Durable goods 126 pips
Retail sales 125 pips
Inflation (CPI) 123 pips
GDP 110 pips
WHAT ARE CONTRARIAN INDICATORS?
You may have heard the saying, “Buy the rumor; sell the fact.” Contrarian
indicatorsare news, data, and opinions that imply a certain path and direc-
tion for any given currency pair, whereas, in reality, the result is totally
opposite. They are very important when you are timing market moves
because they can provide warning signs of possible market reversals.
It has been noted in some research in experimental psychology that
people usually tend to overreact to news events, especially when the events
are unexpected and/or of a dramatic nature. The most recent information
has more weight than previous data.
When this reflects on the markets, you will see that extreme move-
ments in prices will be followed almost immediately by strong movements
in the exact opposite direction; the stronger the first move, the greater will
be the reversal. This is caused by the panic that overcomes investors in the
face of new information, and this expands to the rest of the market. As a
conclusion, you could deduct that when the market is most bearish and
everybody is selling, there is a good opportunity for buying, and inversely,
when other investors are buying and the market shows a strong bullish
impulse, there is a good opportunity for selling. If your estimation about

146 FOREXTRADINGSECRETS
the overreaction of the market is correct, you will profit because the mar-
kets always make a correction over time.
A contrarian indicator is one that indicates that a currency or stock
actually will do the opposite of what the indicator says. When a particular
currency pair or stock starts to get a huge amount of press coverage or
advertising, it is time to pay attention for the imminent reversal. In the case
of a currency pair, the more it is advertised that the pair will be rising (or
falling), the more it is the time to go in the opposite direction. When every-
body is long or short, it’s time to get out and go the other way.

5
P A R T
TECHNICAL ANALYSIS

This page intentionally left blank

10
C H A P T E R
TECHNICAL
INDICATORS
TECHNICAL ANALYSIS
In a technical analysis, you look at the price and volume data to be able to
predict future movements. The basis for a technical analysis was given by
Charles H. Dow, whose methods were based on the behavior of investors,
on psychology, and on the movements of prices. When an analysis is made
based on the movement of prices, you will be doing a technical analysis.
As you can see in charts that are not more than a compilation of move-
ments in the market price of a particular currency, the beginning of a tech-
nical analysis is that any market moves in trends and in the statements of
encouragement of traders. Therefore, all the information necessary to con-
duct a technical analysis is in the chart of a particular currency.
The analysis of trends is necessary for trading in the FOREX because
in the FOREX you can gain in a bull market and a bear market as you buy
one currency and sell the other. The trend lines are a simple reference that
will be useful in confirming the direction of the trend in a currency.
The advantage of technical analysis is that all the factors that affect
the prices of currency, both rational or irrational (e.g., economic data,
hopes, and feelings), are expressed in a single element that represents the
agreement between buyers and sellers at a given time. This element is the
quotation, which synthesizes the future expectations and estimates that
investors have about each currency and that determine the price.
149

150 FOREXTRADINGSECRETS
With a technical analysis, you can detect when a trend is about to
change or continue, and you can determine areas that can serve as starting
points for an operation. However, as stated previously, it is necessary to
operate with coldness and discipline, not being influenced by feelings,
euphoria, or discouragement and not being carried away by the atmosphere
in the market.
In order to make a technical analysis, your approach will be based first
on the tendency in the market, which can be primary, secondary, or tertiary.
A primary tendency can last for years, and a secondary tendency can last
for months. Tertiary tendencies are variations within a secondary tendency.
Technical analysis uses indicators and patterns. Indicators are mathe-
matical operations on the range of prices that exist in a chart, whereas pat-
terns are forms that are often repeated over time.
The second important point of a technical analysis is the resistance
and support levels because some levels remain constant over time and are
difficult to break upward (resistance) and can break downward (support).
Certain resistance or support levels are difficult to break because traders
determine whether it is good to break them or not. But when a rupture of
a support or a resistance level takes place, the prices tend to go toward the
following level of support or resistance. However, there can be false
breaks in a given level, and this occurs because traders are not attracted to
break this particular level.
What you find in the charts that your broker gives you will be
explained in the next section, and that information can be displayed in dif-
ferent ways.
TYPES OF CHARTS SHOWING PRICE ACTION
PRICE ACTION
What Is Price Action?
Price action is the direct result of order flow: buyers and sellers in the mar-
ket at a given moment and at a certain price level. Price action will show
you the particular bias (more buyers than sellers, or vice versa), the speed
at which operations are being performed, and where the buying and selling
are occurring (the levels of support and resistance). You can gauge when a
breakout is real and where a reversal is probably going to happen. Indica-
tors are born from the continuous flow of this price action and thus depend
on it. The indicators only can show what is happening or has happened a
few moments ago. For this reason, your understanding of and ability to

CHAPTER10 TECHNICALINDICATORS 151
interpret price action become an essential component of your trading. They
are a way to get to the core that lies behind the origin of indicators and of
most of the technical signals in the market.
Basic elements are the condition of the bars or candles themselves. You
will have up bars, down bars, inside and outside bars, and pin bars or Pinoc-
chio bars. How they relate to one another and form patterns is also taken
into account, as in double highs or double lows.
Here are some of the basic definitions of price-action patterns:
APinocchioorpin bar(PB) has a very long nose pointing in one
direction, but it is lying about the direction it will take thereafter
(thus the name). Its close has to be lower than the open and its
direction down, nose pointing up, for a bearish pin bar The
inverse, nose pointing down, direction up, close higher than the
open, is the case for a bullish pin bar.
pinbar
pinbar
pinbar
Adouble-high lower close(DBHLC) shows two sequential bars with
the same high, the second bar closes lower than the first bar’s low,
and the direction is down, or bearish. Inversely, a bullish double-
low higher close(DBLHC) will show two sequential bars with the
same low, the close of the second bar is higher than the close of
the first bar, and the direction is up.
Outside barscan be bearish or bullish, a bearish outside bar(BEOB)
will engulf the first bar, its close being lower than its open and the
close of the first bar, with the direction down. The bullish outside
bar(BUOB) has an upward direction, also engulfs the previous
bar, and its close is higher than its open and than the open of the
previous bar.

152 FOREXTRADINGSECRETS
inside bar
Theinside barsetup needs three candles or bars for confirmation.
The previous bar is bigger, the inside bar is contained within the
length of the previous bar, and the third bar must break both of
the first two bars for validity, as you can see in the figure above.
The direction will be up or down depending on which side
breaks first.
exact test = failure = change of trend AUD/USD 4 hours - PRICE ACTION
UPTREND
Higher Highs (HH)
LH
Higher Lows (HL)
LL
Outside Bar (OB) HH
LL HH
LH
HH
HL
OB
LL
LH
HH
IB
LL
HL
DOWNTREND
OB
Lower Highs (LH)
Lower Lows (LL) HL
Inside Bar (IB)
LL

CHAPTER10 TECHNICALINDICATORS 153
The price on any given time frame is in an uptrend if it continuously
makes higher highs(HHs) and higher lows(HLs) and in a
downtrend if it continuously makes lower highs(LHs) and lower
lows(LLs). Any other behavior will give consolidation patterns
such as ranges, triangles, pennants, rectangles, etc. The trend
continues until the behavior remains in place and is broken as
soon as there are no higher highs and higher lows occurring for
an uptrend or lower highs and lower lows occurring for a
downtrend. After a trend is broken, there is usually a period of
consolidation until the trend resumes or reverses.
Different time frames can have different trends, so it is important to be
able to differentiate uptrends and downtrends as well as consolidation pat-
terns. Price can be rising on a daily chart but meanwhile can be performing a
correction or retracement over shorter periods. You have to train your eye to
spot the movements, and a good exercise to do is to take a chart and mark the
lows and highs as in the figure above (with LL or HL for lows and HH and
LH for highs). First take a higher time frame, such as 4 hours, and mark the
trendlines that result from the union of higher or lower highs and higher or
lower lows. Then switch and do the same on a shorter time frame, such as 30
minutes. Identify the new highs and lows, and draw the corresponding trend-
lines. Now you are able to see the trend in both time frames. You can decide
to trade based on the shorter time-frame trend or wait until both align and the
price starts moving in the same direction as the higher time-frame trend.
ADVANCE AND RETREAT
The two essential moves that can be seen on a chart are impulsive moves
and corrective moves. An impulsive moveis a strong advance in the direc-
tion of the trend, usually fast and long, followed by several candles in the
same direction. Corrective moves are the inverse and usually follow an
impulsive move. The price action retreats, but the strength is very low.
Small bars or candles show with no particular alignment. They usually pre-
pare the next impulsive move.
An impulsive move is the result of a large amount of capital entering
the market, where buyers or sellers come in at a particular level and with a
specific direction in mind. It also can be triggered by a price cascade, such
as by reaching a huge amount of pending stop-loss orders (exiting contrar-
ian positions or entering new positions in the same direction as the move).
These are the moves with the most consistency because the order flow is
heavily biased in one direction. Being able to identify impulsive moves pro-
vides us with great trading opportunities.

154 FOREXTRADINGSECRETS
Corrective moves, on the other hand, are usually the result of two pos-
sible situations: profit taking after an impulsive move or a mixed number
of buyers and sellers sitting at a certain level, which could become a rever-
sal point. Very often the next move after a correction is a continuation of
the previous impulsive move. This type of move has a much lower and
unstable order flow and offers a much smaller number of opportunities for
good trades.
Gauging the time elapsed between moves is useful in order to have an
idea of how much time you will have to wait for the next continuation
move. Although not exactly accurate, the price wave usually has a particu-
lar frequency (different in every time frame) that can be measured and
help you to identify impulses and corrections and give you a rough idea
about the possibilities of success for a particular entry. Counting the bars
when a pattern is formed is also important in verifying the consistency and
potential of the given pattern. For example, wedges and triangles usually
complete or exit their patterns at between two-thirds and three-quarters of
the move. It is quite rare that they go all the way to completion. Finally,
observing the time variable in a consolidation pattern will give you an idea
of the potential breakout that has to come later. The longer this time is, the
greater is the possibility that the following breakout is a legitimate one.
Also, it will break with more strength after a long period of ranging.
LINE CHARTS
EUR/USD 15 minutes Line Chart

CHAPTER10 TECHNICALINDICATORS 155
In line charts, the closing price is displayed as a point, which is then con-
nected to all the other points through a line, called the price line.This line
offers very little information but can show the general trend in the price of
a particular currency. Every different time scale will show the closing price
point for that specific time frame. In some trading platforms, you are able
to plot the chart based on a different price (e.g., open, high, or close), but
the standard is usually the close because the fluctuation in price during that
time frame is not as important as the point in time where the pair closes for
most traders.
Other possible settings are an average price between the open (O),
close (C), high (H), and low (L), or (O (cid:5)H(cid:5)L(cid:5)C)/4, or other less com-
mon settings such as the average of high, low, and close, or (H (cid:5)L(cid:5)C)/3,
or (H (cid:5)L(cid:5)2(cid:3)C)/4, or (H (cid:5)L)/2, etc. The average of the four prices is
best because it is easier to work with and takes out most of the noise.
The line chart is much harder to interpret, especially for beginners,
and some chart patterns are not as easier to spot. It can be of general use
to have an overview of the price movement, but I would not recommend it
for hands-on trading because other types of charts can give much stronger
signals and indications.
BAR CHARTS
EUR/USD 15 minutes Bar Chart

156 FOREXTRADINGSECRETS
Abar chartcan show three or four types of prices, the opening and closing
price and the high and low on OHLC barsor simply the high, low, and close
prices on HLC bars.The top indicates the highest price for the period, the
bottom shows the lowest price, and the vertical bar indicates the trading
range for the given period. The horizontal dash on the left side is the open
price, and the dash on the right side is the close price. On HLC bars, only
the right dash is seen.
The bar chart is one of the most popular charts, and it offers a fair
amount of information about the price movement of the currency pair. High
and low prices are united by the vertical bar showing the trading range, and
visualization of market movements is much better than on line charts
because you can see where the price has closed with respect to the opening
price and thus see if the market is going up or down.
CANDLESTICK CHARTS
EUR/USD 15 minutes Candlesticks Chart
Candlestick chartsare very similar to bar charts in the type of information
they offer, also containing price direction information. However, the
graphic display is easier to interpret.
Opening and closing prices make the body of the candlestick. When
the opening price is lower than the closing price (up candle), the body is
left blank or white. When the opening price is higher than the closing
price (down candle), the body is filled with color or black (this can be

CHAPTER10 TECHNICALINDICATORS 157
interpreted as “void” and “filled” because a void candlestick will be
lightly weighted and will “float up” and a filled candlestick will be heavy
and “fall down”).
Upper shadows or wicks show the high of the price and lower shad-
ows show the low of the price for the time period selected. There is a
series of patterns that are considered to have prediction qualities. The
names of the patterns make it easier to remember what a particular pat-
tern means; in addition, some of the patterns are good for identifying
market reversal points.
These are the most commonly used charts. However, there are also
other ways to represent price action graphically.
HEIKEN-ASHI CHARTS
Heiken-Ashi charts were invented by the Japanese and look like candle-
stick charts, but they use a different method to calculate and plot the
candles.
EUR/USD - Heiken-Ashi - 1 hour Chart
Unlike candlestick charts, in which each candlestick shows four differ-
ent values of the open, close, high, and low prices (independent of each
other), Heiken-Ashi candles use the preceding candle and are calculated
based on their relationship:

158 FOREXTRADINGSECRETS
Close:This is the average of the open, close, high, and low prices
(OHLC/4).
Open:This is the average of the open and close of the preceding
candle.
High:This is the highest value among the high, open, and close
prices.
Low:This is the lowest value among the high, open, and close prices.
In this way, they are related to each other. When calculating the open
and close prices of every candle, you need to know the preceding open and
close prices, and the high and the low are affected in the same way by the
preceding candle. For this reason, the candles appear on the chart with a
certain delay. This can be a good feature when you are trading very volatile
currency pairs and also when you engage in scalping very short time
frames such as the 1-minute chart because it prevents you from entering too
early and making mistakes by trading against the market. However, trading
with Heiken-Ashi candles by themselves is not the best option, especially
in higher time frames, because the action is delayed, and you could be
entering too late. You should have another chart open to see the normal can-
dlesticks or bars along with this indicator.
When the market is bullish, Heikin-Ashi candles have big bodies and
long upper shadows but no lower shadow. When the market is bearish,
Heikin-Ashi candles have big bodies and long lower shadows but no upper
shadow. Reversal candles are similar to doji candlesticks, with a very small
body and long upper and lower shadows.
There are five primary signals that identify trends and buying oppor-
tunities:
● Hollow candles with no lower shadows indicate a strong uptrend; they
signal to keep on the long side and gather more profits.
● Hollow candles signify an uptrend; you might want to add to your
long position and exit short positions.
● One candle with a small body surrounded by upper and lower
shadows indicates a trend change; risk-loving traders might buy or
sell here, whereas others will wait for confirmation before going short
or long.
● Filled candles indicate a downtrend; you might want to add to your
short position and exit long positions.
● Filled candles with no higher shadows identify a strong downtrend;
stay short until there’s a change in trend.

CHAPTER10 TECHNICALINDICATORS 159
RENKO CHARTS
EUR/USD-RENKO chart - 40 pips range
Renko chartsalso were invented by the Japanese. In this type of chart, the
time and volumes are not taken into account. The chart is concerned only
with price movement.
Renko candles look like small boxes or bricks (renga in Japanese)
with no upper or lower shadows. The size of the box can be changed based
on a chosen set price value. The smaller the size, the higher will be the
number of boxes needed, so more details of the price changes will be
shown on the charts.
The chart is built by placing a box in the next column as soon as the
price surpasses the top or bottom price of the preceding box by a given
amount. In the chart above, the range established is 40 pips. White or hol-
low boxes are used when the direction of the trend is up, whereas black or
filled boxes are used when the trend is down.
This type of chart helps traders to identify very efficiently the main
support and resistance levels. The signals to buy or sell appear when the
direction of the trend changes, and the boxes alternate colors.
For example, a trader will sell when a black box is placed at the end
of a series of rising white boxes. Some caution should be exercised,
though. Since this type of chart was designed as a means to follow the
general price trend of a particular asset, you often can get false signals
when the color of the boxes changes too early, thus producing a whipsaw
effect.

160 FOREXTRADINGSECRETS
POINT AND FIGURE CHARTS
This is a chart that records period-to-period price movements but doesn’t
take time into consideration. Point and figure charts are composed of a
series of columns with Xs or Os. An X is used to state a rising price, and an
O represents a falling price. This helps in filtering out price movements that
are not significant and also in determining what the main support and resis-
tance levels are. When the price moves beyond those levels, traders will
place their orders.
30 X
29 X O X X X
28 X O X O X O X
27 X O X O X O X
26 X O O X O X
25 X X O X O X X
24 X O X O X O X O X
23 X O X O O X O X
22 X X X O X O X O X
21 X O X O X O O O
20 X X O X O X
19 X X O X O X O X
18 X O X O X O X O X
17 X O X O O O X
16 X O X O
15 X O
14 X
13 X
12 X
11 X
10 X
The first thing defined here is the box size,or the number of points that
the currency pair will have to move to justify the drawing of a new box.
Every time the price changes more than that amount, another X or O is
added. For example, in the chart above, the box size is 1, and every time the
price goes up an additional point, another X is drawn. Xs and Os are not
mixed in the same column. If the price goes down after a previous rise, a
new column will be drawn to the right.
PIP RANGE BAR OR CANDLESTICK CHARTS
Pip range bar chartswere designed by Vicente Nicolellis, a Brazilian bro-
ker and trader, in 1995. He wanted to solve the problem of handling the
extreme volatility of local markets and finally decided that the best way to

CHAPTER10 TECHNICALINDICATORS 161
achieve this was to take time out of the equation, focusing solely on price.
This is similar to a point and figure charts approach, where only price
changes are recorded.
Pip Range
Pip Range Bar Chart 8 15 20
Constant ranges are used to define the bars or candles. Usually, you can
find ranges of 8, 10, 15, 20, and 30 pips. A new bar is opened as soon as
that range has been covered and the price opens higher or lower, starting a
new range with the same pip value. You can apply to these charts the same
indicators you would on normal bar or candlestick charts.
These charts are particularly interesting when you are facing a stalling
market, where there is a long congestion of prices, which in a normal chart
would be reflected in several short-bodied bars or candles. In this way,
attention can be focused on the essential changes in price itself, taking out
the usual noise of sideways markets. When a range is complete, a new bar
opens independent of the time. You could have a single bar for a whole day
of trading if you are using a 30-pip range and the price hasn’t gone over or
under that range for the duration of the day. As soon as the market goes over
the 30-pip range, a new bar will open, starting at the closing level of the
preceding bar, and the 30-pip range will have to be completed again to
allow a new bar to open later on. Conversely, if the range is covered in a few
minutes and the price keeps going in a fast move, you will have several 30-
pip range bars or candles showing those changes.

162 FOREXTRADINGSECRETS
TREND INDICATORS
MOVING AVERAGES
The moving average (MA) is an indicator that shows the average value of
the price of a currency pair over a set period. It is generally used to measure
momentum and define areas of possible support and resistance, as well as
for checking the direction of a trend. The most commonly used detection of
upward or downward momentum is through the cross of two moving aver-
ages, one short term and the other longer term. When the fast MA crosses
above or below the slow MA, it indicates a possible change in trend.
There are several variations in the calculation for this indicator. An MA
can be simple, exponential, smoothed, or linearly weighted.
AUD/USD - 1 Hour Chart
Simple
Exponential
Smoothed
Moving Averages (50 periods) applied to Close Price Linear Weighted
Simple Moving Average (SMA)
This is a simple, or arithmetic, MA calculated by adding the closing price
of the given instrument for a number of time periods and then dividing this
total by the number of time periods.
Exponential Moving Average (EMA)
An EMA is similar to an SMA, with the difference that more weight is
given to the latest data. An EMA is also known as an exponentially
weighted moving average.This type of MA shows a faster reaction to most

CHAPTER10 TECHNICALINDICATORS 163
recent price changes in comparison with an SMA. EMAs are used, for
example, in the moving average convergence-divergence (MACD) indica-
tor and in other oscillators. The most commonly used values to gauge long-
term trends are the 50- and 200-day EMAs.
Linearly Weighted Moving Average (LWMA)
This type of moving average, like the EMA, also assigns a higher weight-
ing to the most recent price data in a proportional regression. Each price of
a given set of periods is multiplied by its relative position in the data series,
and then they are all added and divided by the total number of time periods.
For example, in a 25-period LWMA, the price of the last period is multi-
plied by 25, the preceding one by 24, and so on and then divided by the sum
of all the multipliers.
AVERAGE DIRECTIONAL MOVEMENT INDEX (ADX)
This indicator was developed by J. Welles Wilder to identify the presence of
a trend in a given financial instrument. The ADX is composed of three lines:
the index itself and two lines known as the directional movement indicators
(DMIs) in the index’s positive and negative directions ((cid:5)DI and (cid:4)DI).
This indicator provides an objective value for the strength of a trend. It
is nondirectional and related to the respective directional indicator, so it
AUD/USD - 1 Hour Chart
ADX - Average Directional Movement Index
ADX
Dl+
25
Dl–

164 FOREXTRADINGSECRETS
will provide a measure of the strength of the particular direction. When it
rises, the trend signaled by the directional indicator that has crossed above
the other one will be stronger; when it falls, the trend will be weaker.
Directional Movement Index (DMI)
The DMI indicates the potential trending of a currency pair. The scale for
the DMI goes from 0 to 100. It is composed of two lines, the (cid:5)DI and the
(cid:4)DI (positive and negative directions). The ADX is a moving average of
the DMI. Its value should be above 25 for a trend to have the needed
strength for its definition.
Positive Directional Indicator ((cid:5)DI)
The (cid:5)DI is a component of the ADX that is used to measure an uptrend.
When the (cid:5)DI slopes upward, it indicates that the uptrend is getting
stronger. The beginning of the uptrend will be signaled by this line crossing
above the negative directional indicator ((cid:4)DI).
Negative Directional Indicator ((cid:4)DI)
The (cid:4)DI is another component of the ADX that is used to signal a down-
trend. When the slope of the (cid:4)DI starts rising, it indicates that the down-
trend is getting stronger. When it crosses above the (cid:5)DI, this signals the
beginning of a new downtrend.
BOLLINGER BANDS
Bollinger bands are an indicator developed by John Bollinger that allow
users to compare the volatility and relative price levels over a time period.
This indicator consists of three bands that follow the price action of a given
currency pair.
The middle line is an SMA of the set periods (the chart above is set to
the standard of 20 periods). The upper band is commonly set to 2 standard
deviations plus the given SMA value, and the lower band is set to the SMA
minus 2 standard deviations. The standard deviation is a statistical unit of
measure that offers an assessment of the volatility of a certain price. In this
way, the bands can react quickly to price movements and reflect periods of
high and low volatility. Bands will widen when there is a greater volatility
and will stretch when the volatility is very low.
The number of periods of the moving average, as well as the number
of deviations, would have to be adjusted to the usual behavior of the spe-
cific currency pair as well as the time frame that is being used. The default
setting is 20 periods and 2 standard deviations. Properly set Bollinger

CHAPTER10 TECHNICALINDICATORS 165
upper band
mean line
(SMA 20)
lower band
Bollinger Bands (20 periods)
2 standard deviations
AUD/USD - 1 Hour Chart
bands should hold both support and resistance of the price reversal swings,
that is, the higher low in a downward move turning to the upside and the
lower high in an upward move turning to the downside. The price of this
second low or high should not penetrate the bands. Those higher lows or
lower highs are formed as a reaction after a strong fall or rise. The price
has corrected, and it rallies again in the former direction, failing to reach
the previous bottom or top.
Bollinger bands allow traders to identify periods of high volatility and
extremely low volatility. In particular, they help in gauging when prices are
reaching unsustainable extremes and are near a reversal to the mean. Peri-
ods of lower volatility, when the bands are very narrow, lead to a breakout.
However, the bands will not give any indication of the future direction of
prices. This should be determined with the help of other indicators and gen-
eral technical analysis.
A signal that can be taken from the configuration of the bands is the
double bottom or double top. When prices penetrate below the lower band
and remain there, resting above the band, this is a signal for a long position,
which will be confirmed when the price rises above the middle band. When
prices penetrate above the upper band and a second attempt fails to break
through, and the price remains below the band, this is a signal for a short

166 FOREXTRADINGSECRETS
position, which will be confirmed when the price falls down and reaches
the middle band.
It is important to note that the second low or the second high has to
remain above the bands, although the remaining lows can be higher or
lower than the others.
This indicator can be used for trend following because the price will
tend to remain near one of the bands, for straddling breakouts when there is
a very tight zone, and also for counter-trending by profiting from trend
exhaustion, as in the preceding example of double bottoms and double tops.
Note that just touching the bands is not a signal in itself; this will only
indicate that prices are reaching an extreme with respect to their mean,
becoming overbought or oversold. However, when trending, prices can
continue the path of one of the bands and fluctuate between the band and
the middle line without crossing to the other side.
COMMODITY CHANNEL INDEX (CCI)
This oscillator was developed by Donald Lambert, and it is used to help
determine overbought and oversold conditions of a particular currency
pair. It is also often used to identify cycles in trends because it allows a
trader to see the potential peaks or troughs in the price line and to estimate
possible changes in the direction of the trend. Usually crosses of the zero
AUD/USD - 1 hour chart
CCI (14 periods) applied to Typical Price (HLC/3)
+100
0
–100

CHAPTER10 TECHNICALINDICATORS 167
line indicate a buy or sell opportunity, and values above 100 show a possi-
ble overbought condition. Meanwhile, values below 100 will alert of a
possible oversold situation.
The formula for its calculation is as follows:
CCI(cid:2)price – MA/0.015 (cid:3)D
where MA is a moving average of the price and D the normal deviations
from that average.
PARABOLIC STOP AND REVERSE (SAR)
This indicator is part of a strategy that uses a trailing stop point level in
which the position has to be reversed when the level is broken and the
trailing stop has been hit. It is used to evaluate the best entry and exit
points. This method was developed by J. Welles Wilder. If the currency pair
is trading below the parabolic SAR (PSAR), the market is bearish, and you
should sell or stay in your short positions. If it trades above the PSAR, you
should buy or stay long.
This indicator determines not only the direction of a particular cur-
rency pair but also its momentum and the location of the points at which
AUD/USD - 1 Hour Chart
Parabolic SAR

168 FOREXTRADINGSECRETS
it is higher and thus has a greater probability of changing direction. It is
shown on the charts with a series of dots placed at a relative distance
from the prices depending on the settings. Common standard settings are
step 0.02 – maximum 0.2, but I have been having much better results
with a step 0.03 – maximum 0.6 setting for scalping and in smaller time
frames.
When the most recent high price has been broken, the PSAR changes
its side, and thus the direction is usually reversed, placing itself at the most
recent low price. The SAR then starts rising or falling faster as the trend
develops, and at a certain point, the dots catch up with the price action. This
is when a turning point is near. It is better to use the PSAR in trending con-
ditions because it will not work as well in a choppy or sideways market.
MARKET AND VOLATILITY INDICATORS
AVERAGE TRUE RANGE (ATR)
This indicator measures the volatility. It was introduced by Welles Wilder
in his book, New Concepts in Technical Trading Systems.
AUD/USD - 1 hour chart
ATR - Average True Range
0.00300
0.00250

CHAPTER10 TECHNICALINDICATORS 169
The true range indicator is the greatest result of the following
calculations:
● The current high less the current low, or
● The absolute value of the current high less the previous close, or
● The absolute value of the current low less the previous close
The average true range is a moving average (20 days is the most com-
monly used time period) of the true ranges of every individual period con-
sidered. Higher volatility will show a higher value of ATR; lower volatility
will show a lower value of ATR.
BULLS AND BEARS POWER
This indicator was designed by Dr. Alexander Elder. It consists of two dif-
ferent oscillators, and it is used to evaluate the relative strength of bullish
and bearish sentiment. Extreme conditions of optimism or pessimism are
detected in the markets, which show the states of mind of most of its par-
ticipants, and the trader thus can profit by trading against them. When the
market is rising, the trader will go short; when the market is reaching its
lowest point, the trader enters and buys.
Calculation of this indicator includes an exponential moving average
that is subtracted from the high prices in the case of bull power and from
AUD/USD - 1 hour chart
Bulls Power
Bears Power

170 FOREXTRADINGSECRETS
the low prices for bear power. Both are usually shown as histograms, as you
can see in the figure below.
Interpretation of the moving average is relative to its slope: When the
average rises, there is a bigger bullish sentiment in the market. When it
falls, the sentiment is more bearish. The turning point is when prices can’t
be pushed any higher, which shows as the high value in the indicator;
the low shows the turning point for a reversal up, when sellers can’t drive
the price any lower. Both turning points show the maximum power of
each group.
When bulls power is positive and rising, bulls are stronger; the values
become negative when they are particularly weaker. Bears power is usually
negative and shows a positive value when the market is under complete
control of the bullish sentiment.
How to Use This Indicator
For entering a long position, the trend should be up, bears power rising and
bulls power making a higher peak. The strongest signal comes when bears
power is rising from a bullish divergence.
When prices reach a new high but the bulls power reaches a lower
peak, it is time to place a short position. The trend must be down, bulls
power falling, and bears power can be showing its lowest values or be
decreasing from a bearish divergence. The best trading opportunities can
be found when there are divergences between the bulls or bears power
indicator and prices.
MOMENTUM
The momentum indicator measures the rate at which the price or volume
of transactions of a certain currency pair accelerates. As soon as this
acceleration is seen in price, most traders will enter the market because it
is very probable that the momentum will continue in the same direction.
This is used mostly in short-term strategies and not recommended for
beginners.
Calculation of momentum is based on the change in price multiplied by
the trading volume for a given period. The volume is an important element
of this indicator because it determines the strength and potential durability
over time of a certain change in prices. If the volume is low, the move will
have little momentum.

CHAPTER10 TECHNICALINDICATORS 171
AUD/USD - 1 Hour Chart
Momentum
+2
0
–2
VOLUME
The volume indicator shows the number of contracts that are being traded
for a particular currency pair during a specific period, depending on each
time frame. Each bar indicates the number of transactions realized, and as
AUD/USD - 1 Hour Chart
Volumes

172 FOREXTRADINGSECRETS
long as the current period is active, the value will go up with every addi-
tional trade that is made.
Volume is commonly used to gauge the strength or importance of a
market move. The higher the volume during a particular price move, the
more significant the move will be.
However, what does your broker’s platform volume indicator really
measure? Unless you are trading directly with a major liquidity provider,
it will show the volume of transactions performed at any given point on
a time scale (thus depending on it), not only the open effective orders
(buy or sell) but also the positions that are closed in both directions. But
only for that brokerage!
It is not a reflection of the whole FOREX market, but the propor-
tional part of transactions that occurred on the specific platform on which
you are trading. This explains why in certain situations (e.g., during the
Christmas holidays or on other special dates) there might be a huge dis-
crepancy between prices and volumes among several different platforms
because the “population” of traders on each of them can have its own
behavior that is different from that of others at key moments, while they
behave under a general average in normal situations (e.g., although every
broker has customers from every corner of the world, I am convinced that
many of them concentrate a higher number of traders from one or another
nationality depending on the broker’s origin, and this has a special inci-
dence on certain holidays).
For example, the volume of a 5-minute candle that shows 18 transac-
tions at 13:55 can contain
● One buy and six sell trades (including the eventual counterpart that
brokers usually place on the market)
● Eleven trades closed, of which
● Two because of a sell: target reached or manual close
● Three because of a buy: target reached or manual close
● Six stopped out with stop losses or trailing stops (three sells and
three buys)
In my opinion, this illustrates the number of different reasons why
volume on the indicator fluctuates and makes it difficult to get a true
appreciation of what is really happening because the indicator lacks the
necessary details, especially when it includes counterpart transactions as
well as stopped-out trades.

CHAPTER10 TECHNICALINDICATORS 173
It is not the same to see a decrease in prices because of a bearish
sentiment as it is because a retracement (very well measured, in the
case of stop hunting) has closed all the long positions in play. This
can lead to confusion and would be what is usually called a bear trap or
abull trap.
Therefore, because what is measured by this indicator is not
absolute in terms of the totality of the market but instead reflects every
broker’s own particularities, it will not provide a trustable view of
actual price behavior and cannot be an accurate gauge of the actual
market climate.
UNDERSTANDING OSCILLATORS
OSCILLATOR
Anoscillatoris a technical analysis tool that fluctuates inside a band of two
extreme values based on the results of a trend indicator that allows discov-
ery of short-term overbought or oversold conditions. When the value
approaches the upper extreme, the currency pair is considered to be in an
overbought condition, and conversely, when it approaches the lower
extreme, the pair is considered to be in an oversold condition. Such points
would be probable points of swing reversal or correction. They are very
useful when the market is ranging in a sideways motion in periods of con-
solidation. The most common oscillators are the moving average conver-
gence-divergence (MACD), the stochastic oscillator, and the relative
strength index(RSI).
MOVING AVERAGE CONVERGENCE-DIVERGENCE (MACD)
The MACD is another trend indicator based on momentum and market
sentiment that shows the relationship between two moving averages of
price. It is calculated by subtracting the EMA of the higher number of
periods from the EMA of the shorter periods. Another EMA of an even
shorter period is used as the signal line and serves as a trigger for buying
or selling. The standard values are 26, 12, and 9, respectively.
In the figure below, the value resulting of the subtraction of both
moving averages is represented as a histogram.
The MACD can be used in several ways, and the most common inter-
pretations are crossovers and divergences. Crossovers are twofold: When the

174 FOREXTRADINGSECRETS
AUD/USD - 1 Hour Chart
Moving Average Convergence Divergence (MACD)
0
MACD histogram changes to positive when crossing the zero line, this is an
early signal of a possible signal cross upward. When the signal also crosses
above the MACD histogram, this is confirmation of the former cross of the
zero line and a signal to buy. When the MACD falls below the signal line,
this is an indication that it might be time to sell the currency pair.
Divergences, which will be discussed at the end of this chapter, are
used when the direction of the price of the currency pair diverges from the
direction of the MACD and signals a possible end of the current trend.
STOCHASTIC OSCILLATOR
The stochastic oscillator is a technical indicator based on momentum that
compares the closing price of a currency pair with its price range over a
given time period. The formula for this indicator is as follows:
%K (cid:2)100[(C(cid:4)Lx)/(Hx(cid:4)Lx)]
where x (cid:2)number of previous trading sessions
C (cid:2)the most recent close price

CHAPTER10 TECHNICALINDICATORS 175
Lx (cid:2)the low of the xpreceding trading sessions
Hx (cid:2)the highest price traded during the same xsessions period
%D (cid:2)three-period moving average of %K
AUD/USD - 1 Hour Chart
Stochastic Oscillator
80
20
The theory on which this indicator is based is that prices tend to close
near their high when the market is in an uptrend and that they tend to
close near their low when the market is trending down. The signal is given
when the %K line crosses through the three-period moving average called
the %D.
RELATIVE STRENGTH INDEX (RSI)
The RSI indicator is based on momentum and compares the size of recent
gains with recent losses so as to determine the overbought and oversold
conditions of a currency pair. It is calculated using the following formula:
RSI(cid:2)100(cid:4)100/1(cid:5)RS
where RS is the average of x days’up closes divided by the average of x
days’down closes.

176 FOREXTRADINGSECRETS
AUD/USD - 1 Hour Chart
RSI - Relative Strength Index
70
30
The RSI ranges from 0 to 100. A currency pair is said to be overbought
as soon as the RSI approaches the 70 level. This means that it might be get-
ting overvalued, and there are fair chances for a possible pullback of prices.
Conversely, if the RSI approaches the 30 level, this means that the currency
pair is possibly getting oversold and thus undervalued, with a possibility for
a reversal in prices.
The RSI is an excellent tool to be used as a complement to other mar-
ket indicators. However, it is not a stand-alone indicator because large and
fast rises or falls in prices can create false signals that could induce a trader
into error.
AN UNIQUE INDICATOR:ICHIMOKU KINKO HYO
Ichimoku kinko hyo is a trend-trading charting system in itself. Its
primary strength is that it uses multiple data points to give the trader
a deeper and more comprehensive view of price action. Ichimoku is a very

CHAPTER10 TECHNICALINDICATORS 177
Ichimoku Kinko Hyo
Senkou Span A
Senkou Span B
Kumo (Cloud)
Kijun Sen
Tenkan-Sen
Chinkou Span
visual system, and it enables traders to quickly discern and filter the low-
probability trading setups from those with higher probability.
The kumo (or “cloud”) is the very core of this system. It enables you
to immediately distinguish the prevailing trend and the relationship of the
actual price with regard to that trend and provides a deep, multidimen-
sional view of support and resistance as opposed to just a single, unidi-
mensional level that is provided by other charting systems. This more
complete view represents a much better the way to see how the market
truly functions, where support and resistance are not merely single points
on a chart but rather are areas that expand and contract depending on
market dynamics.
DIVERGENCES
Divergences are divided into classic or regular (bullish and bearish) and
reverse or hidden (bullish and bearish).

178 FOREXTRADINGSECRETS
CLASSICAL HIDDEN
BULLISH BULLISH
DIVERGENCE DIVERGENCE
HL
LL
HL
LL
Bullish (Buy)
Classic or regular (cid:2)price LL (cid:5)oscillator HL
Reverse or hidden (cid:2)price HL (cid:5)oscillator LL
Bearish (Sell)
Classic or regular (cid:2)price HH (cid:5)oscillator LH
Reverse or hidden (cid:2)price LH (cid:5)oscillator HH
It can be useful for you to remember this phrase: “Tops down, bottoms
up,” to evaluate divergences. Whenever the tops are involved (lower and
higher highs on the price or on the indicator), the movement that usually
ensues is bearish or downward; whenever the bottoms are involved (lower
and higher lows in any of both), the movement that most probably follows
will be bullish or upward.
Divergences act as an early warning system, alerting you when the
market could reverse. However, they do not have to be used as a trading sig-
nal. Relying only on divergences would give too many false signals. But if
you use them along with a particular setup and strategy and confirm the
entries with other indicators, your trades will have a high probability of
being successful with relatively low risk.

CHAPTER10 TECHNICALINDICATORS 179
HH
LH
CLASSICAL BEARISH HIDDEN BEARISH
HH
DIVERGENCE DIVERGENCE
LH
On the other hand, it is not recommended to trade against the direction
given by this indicator. Classic or regular divergences usually appear when
the trend is about to change. Reverse or hidden divergences can indicate
continuation of the actual direction and thus allow keeping you in the trade
for a longer time and bigger profits.

This page intentionally left blank

11
C H A P T E R
TECHNICAL PATTERNS
CANDLESTICKS
Candlesticks were developed as a means to perform technical analysis,
thanks to the Japanese, who first used them to trade rice in the seventeenth
century. A rice trader named Homma from the town of Sakata has been
credited with their development and charting style. Afterwards, Charles
Dow started his own version around 1900, using very similar principles.
Through years of trading and refining, they have been evolving up to the
presentation that you can see today.
The basic principles behind candlesticks are as follows:
● Price action is more important than the reason behind the moves.
● All the fundamental data are already reflected in the price.
● Markets move because of expectations and emotions of fear and greed
in buyers and sellers.
● Markets fluctuate.
● The actual price doesn’t always reflect the real value of a currency.
BASIC PARTS OF A CANDLESTICK
The data that are reflected on a candlestick chart are the open, high, low,
and close prices. The chart consists of a body, which is the hollow or filled
portion, which represents the range between the open and the close prices,
and wicks or shadows on both sides, representing the high and low price
ranges from open or close. The high is signaled by the top of the upper
181

182 FOREXTRADINGSECRETS
shadow, and the low is marked by the bottom of the lower shadow. If the
close price is higher than the open price, the candlestick is bullish, and its
body will be drawn as hollow; if the open price is higher than the close
price, the candlestick will be bearish and will be drawn with a filled body.
HIGH HIGH
OPEN
CLOSE
CLOSE
OPEN
LOW LOW
BULLISH BEARISH
Candlesticks provide a fast overview of price action and are easy to
interpret. Relationships between open and close and high and low are easy
to compare at a glance. The essence of candlesticks is the information
about the relationship between the open price and the close price. Bullish
or hollow candlesticks indicate buying pressure; filled or bearish candle-
sticks indicate selling pressure, and the longer the body is, the more
strength the direction has. Short candlesticks, inversely, are a signal of con-
solidation and little market movement.
GENERAL OVERVIEW
Long versus Short Bodies
Long-bodied candlesticks show a strong buying or selling pressure. The
longer they are, the greater distance there is between the open and close
prices, indicating a significant advance in prices and more aggressive
moves. Usually longer candlesticks will show in the direction of the gen-
eral trend (hollow are bullish and filled are bearish), but this also depends
on their position in the overall pattern of the chart. This type of candle-
stick can signal a potential support level or a reversal after an extended
rise or fall.
Marubozu candlesticks are even more powerful because they don’t
have any shadows or wicks, thus signaling that control of the price action

CHAPTER11 TECHNICALPATTERNS 183
of the market is in the hands of buyers or sellers for the complete period
they represent.
Short-bodied candlesticks indicate a stalling market where there has
been very little change in prices during the period.
Long versus Short Shadows
Upper and lower shadows or wicks provide information about the trading
action. The longer the body is, the more intense is the buying or selling
pressure. Short shadows indicate little action, mostly circumscribed to the
open and close prices.
When one of the shadows is long and the other is short, this indicates
that one of the sides dominated during that trading period; an longer upper
shadow with a short lower shadow shows that buyers were more active in
the first part of the session, leading prices to a higher level, and that sellers
forced the price to go down, closing at a weaker point. A longer lower
shadow indicates that sellers were dominating and driving the prices down
but were overcome by buyers later on, ending with a stronger close.
market
indecision
There are candlesticks with long shadows and a very small body, called
spinning tops. Such candles represent indecision in the market and that
both buyers and sellers were highly active during the period represented,
driving prices much higher and much lower than the open and close prices
but closing near the opening price in the end. A spinning top signals a pos-
sible change in the actual trend, especially if it shows after a long hollow or
filled candlestick.

184 FOREXTRADINGSECRETS
Doji
This type of candlestick alone is a neutral pattern. The candlestick forms
when the open and close prices are practically at the same level, with various
types of shadows, long or short depending on the price action during that
period. The candlestick looks like a cross, an inverted cross, or a plus sign;
sometimes even one of the shadows is not present, as in the case of a drag-
onfly doji.
doji
doji
Similar to the case of the spinning tops, a doji is a signal of indecision
in the market and thus a potential turning point because both buyers and
sellers didn’t get control. It shows equilibrium between offers and bids;
buying and selling forces are getting even, which could represent a weak-
ening of the previous trend and a close potential change. However, by itself,
a doji is not enough to be a powerful signal of a trend reversal, and you
would need more confirmation before taking a trade.
BULLISH PATTERNS
See the Appendix.
BEARISH PATTERNS
See the Appendix.

CHAPTER11 TECHNICALPATTERNS 185
REVERSAL PATTERNS
See the Appendix.
CONTINUATION PATTERNS
See the Appendix.
CHARTISM PATTERNS
Chartism is a system of analysis and prediction for financial instruments
and is a part of technical analysis. It is based exclusively on the study of
patterns that are drawn by the curve of prices on a chart. Its use started at
the beginning of the twentieth century and was consolidated around the
1930s because the amplitude and depth of the crisis of 1929 generated the
need to evolve new analysis techniques in the stock market to get better
information than what was being offered by fundamental analysis.
Chartism is a graphic analysis that focuses solely on the prices and vol-
umes of transactions. Its purpose is to determine the price trend, that is, to
gauge if it is in a bullish or a bearish phase, and help to identify the move-
ments that the price wave realizes at the moment of a trend reversal. It is
based exclusively on the study of the patterns that are drawn by those price
waves. The entire set of patterns is studied and codified in detail, and each
one of them indicates the possible future evolution of prices with a given
risk factor.
Chartism has three basic principles:
1. All the elements that affect a particular asset are reflected and
included in the price.
2. Price rates move in trends.
3. Movements and patterns of price rates always repeat themselves.
With these principles, the chartist analysis affirms that if you know the
price, you do not need to analyze why it is moving because it is enough to
be able to identify clearly the trend of the particular rate and check how it
is moving so as to control and anticipate any changes in trend. Chartists
believe that by studying past actions, the future probable behavior of the
market can be predicted. For this, several chart patterns are used and stud-
ied in detail.

186 FOREXTRADINGSECRETS
REVERSAL PATTERNS
DOUBLE AND TRIPLE TOPS OR BOTTOMS
Double tops and double bottoms are major reversal patterns that form after
long-term trends. They are made up of two consecutive peaks or down
moves mostly to an equal price with a recession between extreme points.
They usually indicate a change in trend from bullish to bearish, or vice
versa, but a reversal will not be confirmed as long as the key supports or
resistances are not broken.
The recession between the two extreme points must be at least 10 percent
because a shorter distance could represent a normal bump into a resistance or
a support. In addition, there must be a certain indication that there has been
an increase in the selling or buying pressure before the price attempts a sec-
ond time to break the resistance or support level.
The need for confirmation of a definite break of the support or resis-
tance helps to prevent making a decision too early. The trend remains in
place as long as those levels hold.

CHAPTER11 TECHNICALPATTERNS 187
Triple tops or bottoms are a similar pattern that also indicates a possi-
ble reversal, but having three consecutive highs or lows followed by a break
of the support or resistance. Triple tops usually are formed on shorter time
frames, unlike triple bottoms.
Before forming completely, the pattern will look like a double top or a
double bottom. You also can find a pattern made up of three equal highs or
lows in a rectangle or in an ascending or descending triangle. The triple top
or bottom, like the double top or bottom, should be observed, and you
should wait for a breakout to occur. If there is a failure to break above or
below the peaks, the reversal is near, but only after support or resistance has
been broken will you really have confirmation of the move.
HEAD AND SHOULDERS (H&S) AND INVERTED H&S

188 FOREXTRADINGSECRETS
Head-and-shoulder patterns usually form after an uptrend, indicating rever-
sal of the actual trend after it has been completed. It is a bearish indicator.
It consists of three consecutive highs, with the middle high being the high-
est of all three, similar to a head with two shoulders; the two lateral highs
are mostly equal in height and width and lower than the head. The lows
formed at support of the shoulders and the head constitute the neckline.
When this neckline is finally broken after completion of the pattern, the
projected price fall is calculated with respect to the distance from the top of
the middle high, or head, to the neckline. This distance in points is to be
subtracted from the price level at the neckline, and the result is the proba-
ble price target. Of course, other indicators should be taken into account,
such as, for example, Fibonacci levels and pivot lines, to have a more accu-
rate perspective on setting the target profit.
An inverted head-and-shoulders pattern is the reverse and indicates a
possible bullish reversal under the same conditions as its bearish counter-
part. In this case, though, the volume patterns would be more important to

CHAPTER11 TECHNICALPATTERNS 189
define a confirmation of the reversal. The middle low, or head, is deeper
than the lateral lows that form the shoulders, which should be equal in
height and width. The neckline in this case will constitute a resistance, and
when it is broken, the projected price target will measure roughly the dis-
tance from the bottom of the head, or lowest low of the pattern, to the neck-
line; the point range will be added to the price level at the neckline to
define the target price. As a general rule, volume increases are absolutely
required to confirm the bottom version of this pattern.
FALLING AND RISING WEDGES
Wedges are patterns that begin wide in which prices contract as they move
higher or lower. The resulting shape is a cone with a lower line that slopes up
as highs converge for a rising wedge and an upper line that slopes down as
lows converge on a falling wedge. Conversely to symmetric triangles, where
there is no definite slope or trend, rising wedges are bearish and falling
wedges are bullish. This is confirmed by a support or resistance breakout,
which is represented by the horizontal line formed by the price convergence.
A wedge is usually a reversal pattern, but it also could be considered
a continuation pattern if the slope of the wedge goes against the actual
trend. As a reversal pattern, the slope will be in the same direction as the
prevailing trend.

190 FOREXTRADINGSECRETS
Rising wedges will form after a continued uptrend, where you can see
that prices stall at the horizontal level, indicating that the power of the bull-
ish sentiment is fading away. This horizontal level will act as a resistance
that holds, and the slope acting as support has to be broken to confirm a
change in trend. Falling wedges, on the contrary, will form after a contin-
ued downtrend, and prices will tend to agglomerate at the same level, form-
ing the horizontal boundary of the wedge, which will be the holding
support. The falling slope resistance has to be broken to confirm the
change in trend. In both cases, one should wait for the break to be retested
through a correction move to confirm that either the support has become a
new resistance or the resistance has become a new support. Volume is more
important in confirming the breakout of a falling wedge.
Both falling and rising wedges are consolidation patterns where either
side of the market, depending on the case, is losing strength and momen-
tum. They are particularly difficult to recognize because the trend appar-
ently is continuing and there are still higher lows on rising wedges and
lower highs on falling wedges. However, the failure to cross the boundary
formed by the horizontal line is a signal that upside or downside momen-
tum is losing its potential, and finally, when the resistance or support is
broken, you can see that the contrarian side of the market has won, and
prices will cross up or move down against the prevailing trend.
ROUNDING BOTTOM OR TOP
The rounding bottom is a longer-term pattern that can be witnessed on
daily or weekly charts. Rounding tops are less usual. The round bottom is
also called a saucer and is a long period of consolidation turning from a
bearish trend into a bullish trend.
Usually the low of this pattern will be marking a new low in a bearish
trend. However, there can be a series of lower lows while it is forming.
The first part is a long price fall; then comes a slightly decreasing con-
solidation period where lower lows are slowly creating a horizontal sup-
port zone. When seen as a whole, the shape of the round bottom is like a
V pattern.
The second part of the pattern will develop after about the same num-
ber of periods as the first declining part, creating a shape that is mostly
symmetric. The confirmation of a change in trend from a bearish decline to
a bullish rise will be the breakout of the starting reaction high from where
the decline started in the first part. An increase in volume is usually
expected in this second part.

CHAPTER11 TECHNICALPATTERNS 191
BUMP-AND-RUN REVERSAL
The bump-and-run reversal (BARR) was developed by Thomas Bulkowski.
It was originally named bump and run formation (BARF), but such an
acronym wouldn’t have gotten much approval on Wall Street, so he changed
it to BARR, although the original name would have been quite representa-
tive of what happens in the markets when this kind of formation occurs.
The pattern develops in three phases: lead-in, bump, and the final run.
The first phase can be quite long and is the base off which the trendline is
formed. There is a steady and slow advance in prices and no particular sur-
prises or excessive surges. The angle that Bulkowski determined to be opti-
mal is 30 to 45 degrees of steepness.
The second phase is a sharp and sudden advance, where prices move fur-
ther away from the trendline, creating a steeper angle, usually nearly doubling
the previous one (around 45 to 60 degrees). The bump represents the unsus-
tainability of such an advance for a long time, and prices hit a high and decline
a little bit. Prices make a small peak or a series of descending peaks toward the
initial trendline. Volume in this phase is usually low, whereas it increases in
the previous advance and in the subsequent second attempt to rise higher.

192 FOREXTRADINGSECRETS
The final phase is the run, and prices start declining heavily with an
increase in volume and reach the trendline, which then is broken. A retest
of the broken trend line will confirm the run, and support will transform in
resistance. This is usually followed by a period of consolidation, as you can
see in the figure above. The decrease in prices most commonly will be
equivalent to the previous long advance.
CONTINUATION PATTERNS
FLAGS AND PENNANTS
Flags and pennants are usually short-term continuation patterns that indi-
cate a small consolidation of the markets before a resumption of the previ-
ous move. This consolidation has to be preceded by a steep advance or
decline with heavy volume and strength and commonly marks a midpoint
of the overall move.
The first part of the move is called the flagpole, and it represents the
distance from the first break of a resistance or a support to the highest high
or lowest low of the flag or pennant. The previous breakout is one of the
conditions necessary for this pattern to be considered valid.

CHAPTER11 TECHNICALPATTERNS 193
The subsequent flag will be a small rectangle pattern whose direction
slopes against the trend of the preceding move or flagpole. The price usu-
ally will be located between two parallel lines.
In the case of a pennant, you will have a small symmetric triangle instead
of a rectangle that will converge proportionally as the pattern reaches its
maturity. There is no significant slope, and the prices will be located between
the converging trendlines.
These patterns are usually of a short-term duration. A break above the
resistance formed by the high of a flagpole will signal that the previous rise
is resuming. In the case of a bearish flag or pennant, a break below the sup-
port formed by the low of the flagpole will signal a resumption of the pre-
vious move down.
The subsequent estimation of the distance that can be targeted in the
second advance or decline is made by applying the length of the flagpole as
a projection starting from the break after the consolidation period. The cred-
ibility and probability of success with this pattern are strongly determined
by the presence of a strong advance or decline, with confirmation being
made by a high volume on that initial move or flagpole; then the consolida-
tion and further break will add to the strength of the completed pattern.

194 FOREXTRADINGSECRETS
TRIANGLES
Symmetric
A symmetric triangle commonly is formed as a continuation pattern along
the evolution of a trend. It must have at least two lower highs and two higher
lows. When you connect those points, the lines will converge to form a sym-
metric triangle. Price range is wider at the beginning and goes on contract-
ing near the end point. There are also some conditions in which symmetric
triangles indicate an important trend reversal. The direction of the next move
will be determined only after there has been a breakout of the converging
range. The volume will be decreasing progressively as the triangle extends
in a tight consolidation. This is a medium- to long-term pattern.
The breakout of the tightening range usually happens midway or near
the 75 percent point of triangle development. The time duration will be
evaluated from the point where both upper and lower lines converge back
to the start of the lower trendline base. If the break occurs much earlier than
the 50 percent point, the signal may be a weak or nonvalid one. Volume
should be increasing as well, particularly in the case of breakouts on the
long side. Confirmation of the validity of the move will be given by a retest
and hold of the convergence point that was previously broken, the resis-
tance becoming support or vice versa, and a resumption in the direction of
the breakout.
You can estimate the potential target of the breakout move by measur-
ing the widest side of the triangle and adding it to or subtracting it from the
level of the breakout point. Another way of calculating a possible target is
to draw a parallel trendline to the pattern in the direction of the breakout
that passes through the opposite point on the widest part of the triangle (the
higher price if the breakout was to the upside, the lower price if the break-
out was down). The distance to this trendline will give you the potential
scope of the move.

CHAPTER11 TECHNICALPATTERNS 195
Ascending
An ascending triangle is a bullish pattern that usually develops during an
uptrend. It is a continuation pattern. These formations indicate a gradual
accumulation. The shape is that of a right-angle triangle. There is a horizon-
tal line at the top built off at least two equal highs; the higher lows go build-
ing up the ascending slope, which converges toward the horizontal line.
There has to be an ongoing trend for this pattern to be validated as a
continuation signal. The highs that form the horizontal upper line should be
quite near one from the other, with a reaction low between them. The
ascending slope has to contain at least two reaction lows that are progres-
sively higher. If any reaction low is equal to or lower than the previous one,
the validity of the ascending triangle is canceled.
The volume goes on contracting as the pattern evolves and then expands
as soon as the breakout occurs. This will confirm the pattern, and the break-
out level should be retested for a more solid confirmation. The price projec-
tion to determine the scope of the move after the price has broken the
resistance is calculated by measuring the widest distance of the triangle and
adding it to the price level at the breakout.
The ascending triangle has already been showing a bullish tendency
before a breakout occurs. The reaction lows are continually rising, even if
the horizontal line is signaling a level of supply, and prices cannot move
forward for a while. The continuous ascension of the lows indicates an
increase in the buying pressure and qualifies this pattern as bullish.
Descending
Descending triangles usually are formed in a downtrend and are continua-
tion patterns. On a few occasions, they can signify a reversal, but the most
common behavior is bearish. They signal distribution after accumulation.
Inversely to ascending triangles, the pattern is composed of two or
more equal lows that form a horizontal line at the bottom of the moves. The
descending trendline has a series of two or more successively decreasing
peaks that converge with the horizontal line. If one of the peaks in the
downslope goes above the previous high, the pattern will lose its validity.
The volume, as in ascending triangles, goes on contracting as the pat-
tern evolves. An expansion of volume would occur just before the breakout
of the end point of the triangle. The broken support line then will be retested,
turning into resistance, which will confirm the pattern. The projected target
of the breakout move can be measured relative to the widest range of the pat-
tern, which then will be subtracted from the level of support.

196 FOREXTRADINGSECRETS
In a descending triangle, the horizontal line forms because there is a
volume of demand that impedes the price from going past that level; vol-
ume accumulates, though, and the series of lower highs indicates that there
is a selling pressure that sooner or later will break and drive the prices
much lower.
RECTANGLES
The rectangle is a consolidation and continuation pattern. It signals a pause
in the current trend and is formed from two equal or equivalent lows and
two equal or equivalent highs that can be connected, making the top and
bottom of a rectangle. There is congestion in prices, and a consolidation of
the levels is reached

CHAPTER11 TECHNICALPATTERNS 197
The rectangle can be compared with a symmetric triangle. Most com-
monly, this will be a continuation pattern, but it also could signal a top or
bottom on a particular trend. The confirmation and validity of this pattern
will occur when a breakout happens. As with previous formations, confir-
mation of the breakout is given when there has been a retest of the broken
support or resistance.
The rectangle usually forms a very tight range contained in the four
point boundaries. The volume is quite low, and the price tends to bounce
alternatively between support and resistance. The increase in volume
occurs near the breakout point and can be an indication of the direction that
the prices will take after surpassing the support or resistance level.
The longer the duration of the pattern, the stronger the impulse the
breakout will show. The level will be retested afterwards, providing a con-
firmation if it holds.

198 FOREXTRADINGSECRETS
As in other similar patterns that lead to a breakout, the moment of the
retest and bounce is a good opportunity to enter the trend, but waiting for
this pullback and bounce after a break is a safer strategy. The profit target
scope of the subsequent move can be measured relative to the height of
the rectangle and subtracted from or added to the price level of the break-
out point.
The trading range inside the rectangle represents the struggle and deci-
sion making of bulls versus bears, which both seem to “protect” each other
on their own side of the price levels. When the price approaches the support,
buyers enter the picture again and drive the price higher; as soon as it reaches
the resistance, sellers counteract and force the price to go lower. The struggle
ends when one of the sides wins, and the breakout occurs. The pattern in itself
is neutral and a point of conflict and decision making of the markets.
PRICE CHANNELS
Price channels are patterns that usually determine a continuation of a trend.
They are delimited by an upper and lower trendline that serves as a bound-
ary where prices are contained, the upper trendline being a resistance and
the lower trendline being a support.

CHAPTER11 TECHNICALPATTERNS 199
A price channel can be bullish or bearish depending on whether its
slope is negative or positive, going down or up. The main trendline needs
two points to be drawn; if it is bullish, those points will be two higher lows,
and the trendline will be drawn in the bottom of the channel. If it is bearish,
it will use the lower highs and will be drawn at the top of the channel. A
parallel line from this trendline will be projected and aligned with the
opposite highs or lows to get the whole channel. In the figure above, you
can see four different channels evolving in different directions and at dif-
ferent angles. Number 1 is a bullish channel and contains number 2, which
is bearish and represents the prices pulling back to the lower trendline;
number 3 is a steeper bearish move inside number 2; and number 4 is a
again a bullish leg going toward the upper trendline for continuation of the
overall trend.
In a bullish price channel, as long as the prices are contained between
the upper and lower trendline boundaries, the trend is in force. As soon as
the prices fall through the lower trendline, the trend can be considered to be
broken, and new lines should be drawn after the move to evaluate if the
trend is continuing in the same global direction or if a reversal is taking
place. In the same way, the prices evolving inside the limits of a bearish
channel will confirm continuation of the downtrend until a break above the
upper line indicates that there might be an acceleration of the bullish senti-
ment and thus a probable change in trend.
In both cases, you can have an early signal of those changes when the
prices fail to reach the respective support or resistance in one of the inside
swing moves. When using channeling swing trading strategies, traders usu-
ally look for a short position when the prices reach the upper trendline
resistance and look to buy when the prices have reached the lower trendline
support. In itself, the channel can’t be taken as a sole reference; other tech-
nical analysis tools should be used to confirm that there is a continuation of
the actual trend.
CUP WITH HANDLE
The cup-with-handle pattern was described by William O’Neil in 1988 in
his book, How to Make Money in Stocks. It usually is an indication of a
bullish continuation of the trend that signals a period of consolidation,
which is then followed by a breakout.
This pattern consists of two parts: the cup, which will look like a bowl
or a round bottom, and the handle, which is a small pullback on the right
side of the pattern, a downtrending range that develops after the form of the
cup has been completed. A breakout of this small range is needed to con-
firm resumption of the bullish trend.

200 FOREXTRADINGSECRETS
The form of the cup ideally should be smooth and rounded, ensuring that
this is indeed a consolidation pattern going through several periods and form-
ing the support at the bottom. In a perfect shape, both highs on the sides of the
cup would be equal, but this is not always the case; the pattern will be valid if
a handle range is formed afterwards, independent of whether the highs of the
cup match or not. The usual retracement marked by the depth of the cup is
one-third or one-half the previous rising move. The handle is similar to a flag
or pennant with a downward slope, although it can be shorter sometimes. It is
a final consolidation that takes place before a strong breakout. The smaller
this retracement is, the stronger the bullish sentiment of the formation. It is
recommended that you wait for the break above the resistance line formed by
the highs of the cup to confirm the validity of this pattern. Also, there should
be a significant increase in volume when this breakout occurs.
The projected scope of the subsequent breakout move can be measured
with respect to the distance in points from the bottom of the cup to the right
high of the cup before the handle.

CHAPTER11 TECHNICALPATTERNS 201
MEASURED MOVES:BULLISH AND BEARISH
A measured move consists of three definite parts and usually begins as a
reversal pattern and ends as a continuation of the preceding reversal. A bull-
ish measured move will consist of a reversal rise, a correction or consolida-
tion of prices, and a continuation of the advancing move. A bearish measured
move will consist of a reversal fall, a retracement or consolidation of prices,
and a continuation of the descending move. Both moves cannot be identified
properly until after the correction, retracement, or consolidation period has
resumed. Thus these are categorized as continuation patterns. They are usu-
ally long term and form over several periods.
First Part:Advance or Decline
The first move usually begins near the established lows (bullish) or highs
(bearish) of the previous direction and extends for several periods. The ini-
tial trend change sometimes can be signaled by a reversal pattern or is
established by the formation of new highs or lows or a break above resis-
tance or below support. Usually the initial move is made of regular alter-
nating moves that could form a price channel.

202 FOREXTRADINGSECRETS
Second Part:Consolidation/Correction
A retracement in the opposite direction of the first move takes place. You
can find further patterns that will determine which kind of corrective move
it is, for example, a rectangle or an ascending or descending triangle in the
case of a consolidation, a flag with a downward slope, or a falling wedge. In
the case of a retracement, you could expect a pullback of one- to two-thirds
of the previous move. The bigger the move in the first phase, the bigger the
correction move will be.
Third Part:Continuation
The scope of the continuation after the correction move can be calculated by
applying the length of the first-phase move to the level that marks the end of
the second phase. For example, in a bullish move, if the length of the first
move was from a price level ending at 40 to a price level of 70 (30 points)
and the subsequent consolidation or correction pulled back to the 50 level,
the target of the third continuation phase would be 80 (adding the 30 points
to the end level of the correction). In the case of a bearish move, if the first

CHAPTER11 TECHNICALPATTERNS 203
phase showed a fall from 70 to 40 (same 30 points) and the correction
brought the price to 50, the target would be set at 20, which is the end point
of the correction at 50 minus the 30 points of the first fall.
Volumes
The volume ideally increases at the beginning of the first phase, diminishes
in the second phase, especially at the end, and rises again at the beginning
of the third or continuation phase. Volume confirmation is more important
in bullish than in bearish patterns.
Both bullish and bearish measured moves can contain a series of dif-
ferent patterns. You can find double bottoms or double tops at the start,
price channels during the reversal consolidation or correction, ascending or
descending triangles at the end of the consolidation or retracement, and
again price channels in the continuation phase.
ELLIOTT WAVES
HISTORY
The Elliott wave theory was developed by Ralph Nelson Elliott in the late
1920s when he discovered the existence of a repetitive and cyclic behavior
in the stock markets that formerly was considered to be mostly random and
chaotic, a behavior that depends on the reactions of investors at a particular
moment and thus is a result of mass psychology. Elliott studied the struc-
ture of those repetitive patterns that show up as waves within waves and can
repeat themselves indefinitely, showing two specific characteristics,
impulse and correction, and applied this to market prediction.
COUNTING WAVES
Elliott wave theory is interpreted as follows:
● Every action is followed by a reaction.
● Five impulsive waves move in the direction of the main trend and are
followed by three corrective waves (a 5–3 move).
● A 5–3 move signals completion of a cycle.
● This 5–3 move then becomes two subdivisions of the next higher
5–3 wave.
● The underlying 5–3 pattern remains constant, independent of the time
scale you are using.

204 FOREXTRADINGSECRETS
5
B
3
4 A
1
C
2
In the figure above, you can see that the three waves that go in the
direction of the trend are impulses, so these waves also will have five waves
within them. The waves against the trend are corrections and are made up
of three waves.
Elliott wave theory assigns a series of categories to the waves from
largest to smallest. These are grand supercycle, supercycle, cycle, primary,
intermediate, minor, minute, minuette, and subminuette.
FIBONACCI
In mathematics, Fibonacci numbers are a sequence of numbers in which
the first number is 0, the second number is 1, and each subsequent number
is the result of the sum of the previous two numbers. The Fibonacci
sequence of numbers is as follows: 0, 1, 1, 2, 3, 5, 8, 13, 21, 34, 55, 89, 144,
etc. Each term in this sequence is simply the sum of the two preceding
terms, and the sequence continues infinitely. Each subsequent number in
this series has a common relationship with the others in that they all are
approximately 1.618 times greater than the preceding number, which also
corresponds to the golden ratio value.
The key Fibonacci ratio of 61.8 percent—also referred to as the golden
ratioor the golden mean—is found by dividing one number in the series by
the number that follows it. For example, 8/13 (cid:2)0.6153, and 55/89 (cid:2)0.6179.
The 38.2 percent ratio is found by dividing one number in the series by the
number that is found two places to the right; for example: 55/144 (cid:2)0.3819.
The 23.6 percent ratio is found by dividing one number in the series by the
number that is three places to the right, for example, 8/34 (cid:2)0.2352.
The sequence was named after Leonardo of Pisa, known as Fibonacci
(a contraction of filius Bonaccio, “son of Bonaccio”), who introduced the

CHAPTER11 TECHNICALPATTERNS 205
concept to western European mathematics in the year 1202 in his book
Liber Abaci. The sequence was already known, though, having been
described earlier in Indian mathematics.
The different Fibonacci patterns, especially retracement, are used com-
monly by traders to identify the scope of a reversal or correction of prices
after a continued leg or wave of a trend. These ratios have been shown to
have an important recurrence in nature as well as in the financial markets.
The direction of the current trend usually resumes to one of the ratios after
the retracement.
In addition to the proper ratios based on the sequence, another retrace-
ment level to 50 percent of the move is usually added, although it is not a
Fibonacci ratio in itself. The reason for this is that the most common ten-
dency for a price is to make a correction to the mean point after a move and
continue in the previous direction after this retracement to 50 percent has
been completed.
RETRACEMENTS
It has been observed that currency pairs or stocks exhibit a recurrent behav-
ior, pulling back or retracing a certain percentage of the last move before
resuming the trend. These are the Fibonacci levels, which usually occur
most often at three levels—38.2, 50, and 61.8 percent; 50 percent is not a
Fibonacci number but represents the tendency of prices to go back to the
mean and reverse after having retraced half the move.

206 FOREXTRADINGSECRETS
This figure is a graphic representation of the reversal points for the
AUS/USD currency pair in a downtrend. The pattern is reversed for cur-
rency pairs that are in an uptrend. The Fibonacci retracement tool can be
found in practically all the charting packages.
To calculate this manually, first of all, you would have to plot the range
between the last swing high and swing low as soon as the price starts to
retrace and calculate the relative percentages of that range that are shown on
the chart: 23.6, 38.2, 50, 61.8, and 76.4 percent are the most basic retrace-
ment levels; those are the most probable areas of support and resistance and
a useful mark when setting a target profit point.
Fibonacci extensions are simply derived ratios that go beyond the stan-
dard 100 percent retracement range and can be used as a projection of
possible targets outside that range on both sides. The most common pro-
jections are 127, 138.2, and 161.8 percent of the range and larger exten-
sions to 261.8 and 423.6 percent for longer-term predictions.
EXPANSION
Fibonacci expansion is calculated by taking three swing points (two highs
and one low or two lows and one high). It is built on two consecutive waves.
It is similar to the retracement but is usually employed to indicate the end
of the third wave. The height of the first wave is considered as a unit inter-
val, and the resulting lines are equivalent to 61.8, 100, and 161.8 percent of
that range. This tool is used mostly along with wave-based analysis such as
Elliott waves or Wolfe waves.

CHAPTER11 TECHNICALPATTERNS 207
CHANNELS
Fibonacci channels are a diagonally represented variation of the Fibonacci
retracement pattern. They are used in the same way as horizontal price pat-
terns—to evaluate possible areas of support and resistance. Both horizontal
and diagonal representations can be used together or in combination with
other support/resistance indicators to define those areas more accurately.
FANS

208 FOREXTRADINGSECRETS
Fibonacci fans are formed with three diagonal lines using Fibonacci ratios
to help identify major levels of support and resistance. They are created
by drawing an imaginary trendline between the high and low and then
dividing the vertical distance between those two points by the major
Fibonacci ratios: 38.2, 50, and 61.8 percent. Each of these divisions will
represents a point in the imaginary vertical line that measures the distance
between the high and the low, and the lines indicate levels of support and
resistance.
ARCS
AUD/USD 1 Hour - Fibonacci Arcs
Fibonacci arcs consist of three curved lines with the same Fibonacci num-
ber proportions that will help anticipate ranging areas and important
support and resistance levels. They are created by drawing an imaginary
trendline between the high and low and then drawing the curves that
will intersect this trendline at the major Fibonacci levels: 38.2, 50, and
61.8 percent. Trading decisions are made when the price crosses through
those levels.
HARMONIC PRICE PATTERNS
Harmonic price patterns are specific series of impulsive and corrective
waves (two impulsive and two corrective) whose calculations and relation-
ships are based on Fibonacci levels and ratios and that have as a continuation
a bigger impulsive wave. The first corrective wave from starting point to the

CHAPTER11 TECHNICALPATTERNS 209
top of the first impulsive wave is what determines the kind of pattern you
should expect.
BUTTERFLY
In the butterfly pattern, the first corrective wave from A to B is a deep
retracement to 0.786, or 78.6 percent, of the move from the starting point
0 to A. If this happens, the second corrective move from C to D would have
to reach 1.272 percent retracement of the first impulse wave from 0 to A. In
this pattern, the projections from point B to point C can vary, but the
Fibonacci ratios relative to the first impulse wave from 0 to A are always
formed at those precise levels.
The following figure shows a bullish butterfly pattern, where the first
impulse wave from 0 to A is pointing upward. A bearish butterfly would have
the same measurements but would be inverted, starting from a downward
move, as shown in the model.
bearish
BUTTERFLY
A 0.0
C
direction of impulse
(bullish)
0.786
0 B 100.0
starting point
1.272
D

210 FOREXTRADINGSECRETS
GARTLEY
This is an exact pattern where the first A-to-B corrective wave is always the
61.8 percent retracement of the move from 0 to A. The second corrective
wave from C to D then should form at 0.786 of the move from 0 to A. Both
corrective waves always will form precisely at those levels.
bearish
GARTLEY
A C
0.0 100.0
0.886
direction of impulse
(bullish)
0.618 0.0
B
0.786
D100.0
0
starting point
The figure image shows a bullish Gartley pattern, where the first
impulse wave from 0 to A is pointing upward. A bearish Gartley would
have the same measurements but would be inverted, starting from a down-
ward move, as shown in the model.
BAT
In the bat pattern, the first corrective wave from A to B is a small correc-
tion, and it retraces most of the time to the 0.382 level (as a maximum to
0.50). If this happens, the second corrective wave from C to D should form
at the 0.886 Fibonacci retracement of 0 to A.

CHAPTER11 TECHNICALPATTERNS 211
bearish
THE BAT
A 100.0 0.0
0.886C
direction of impulse
0.0 0.382 (bullish)
0.50
B
0.886
D
100.0
0
starting point
The figure image shows a bullish bat pattern, with a first impulse wave
from starting point 0 to A pointing upward. If the first impulse wave were
pointing downward, the same calculations for the retracements would apply,
and the pattern would be inverted, as shown in the model.
CRAB
The crab pattern is not found very often, and it can be identified only
when the complete five-wave structure has been finished. This happens
because the main factor that allows us to identify this pattern is the second
corrective wave from C to D, which is a very deep move, retracing up to
1.618 of the first wave from 0 to A. The first corrective wave from A to B
can vary between 0.382 and 0.618, making its level completely subjective.
What counts is the exact position of the last move for the pattern to be
considered correct.
The figure above shows a bullish crab pattern, with a first impulse
wave from starting point 0 to A pointing upward. If the first impulse wave
were pointing downward, the same calculations for the retracements would
apply, and the pattern would be inverted, as shown in the model.

212 FOREXTRADINGSECRETS
bearish
CRAB
A
0.0
C
0.382
0.618
B
100.0 direction of impulse
0 (bullish)
starting point
D
1.618
AB(cid:2)CD
D
B AB = CD
0.0
38.2
50.0
61.8
C
78.6
100.0
A

CHAPTER11 TECHNICALPATTERNS 213
This is a pattern where both impulse waves are equal. It is quite common to
find and easy to recognize, and it is one of the most powerful patterns in
trading. The retracement wave between both legs can vary from 0.382 to
0.786, although in a strongly trending market it doesn’t usually go much
further than a 38.2 percent retracement.
Basic characteristics are as follows:
● Both AB and CD must be equal.
● The retracement cannot go further than the price of the starting point.
This means that the price can’t retrace more than 100 percent.
● Point D has to be higher than point B on a bullish move or lower on a
bearish move for the pattern to be valid.
THREE DRIVES
This pattern consists of three consecutive impulse waves followed by a
small correction. The noticeable aspect of this pattern is that each subse-
quent drive reaches either a 127.2 or a 161.8 percent Fibonacci retrace-
ment. In addition, each of the waves should form over equivalent time
periods and be symmetric one to the other.
3 1.272
2 100.0 1.272
1
100.0
0.0
0.0
Three Drives

214 FOREXTRADINGSECRETS
FRACTALS
BILL WILLIAMS AND CHAOS THEORY
The idea of fractals was discussed by Bill M. Williams, Ph.D., in his book,
Trading Chaos. From his point of view, he defines an up fractal as a
middle bar with two lower highs on each side of it and a down fractalas a
middle bar with two higher lows on each side of it. Chaos traditionally is
seen as a lack of structure or order, but Williams considers chaos to be a
higher degree of order instead, where there is no relationship between cause
and effect because the financial markets pertain to a nonlinear and thus
nonpredictable situation.
Bill Williams goes against most of the theories of technical analysts in
that he believes that the markets can’t be predictable and that a past behav-
ior can’t determine a future behavior. He affirms that the only way to
achieve a success in the financial markets is to understand and explore its
five-dimensional structure, which consists of the following elements: the
fractal or space phase; the driving-force or power phase; acceleration or
deceleration, which would be the power phase; the zone, which is a combi-
nation of strength and power phase; and finally, the balance line.
FRACTALS
Afractalis an indicator developed by Bill Williams for his own trading sys-
tem, and it allows you to detect the bottom or top of a move. Basic fractals
are composed of five bars. They can be identified with the following rules:
● A pattern forms with a highest high in the middle and two lower highs
on each side; this would be a bearish probable reversal point.
● A pattern forms with a lowest low in the middle and two higher lows
on each side; this would be a bullish probable reversal point.
Fractals help to identify the underlying fluctuations in price waves and
also allow larger trends to be broken down into simple and predictable
reversal patterns. They can be used in three different ways:
1. Catch the trending.Depending on the series of fractals that are
successively broken, you can identify whether the trend is bullish or
bearish. More up fractals will be broken in an uptrend, and more
down fractals will be broken in a downtrend. The more they are
broken, the stronger the trend will be.
2. Catch the range.Fractals can help to identify a consolidation area and
will set resistance and support points between which the price will
move. If the price can’t seem to break above or below the most recent

CHAPTER11 TECHNICALPATTERNS 215
fractals, price is said to be consolidating and ranging or sideways.
This also can help you to define a strategy for a potential breakout
later on.
3. Catch the break.Finally, fractals simply can be used as breakout
points, especially in longer time frames, for example, above 4 hours.
The fractal points will be very helpful in drawing trendlines because
they signal the bars or candles that have the highest high or lowest
low of a series.
TRADING NAKED (ONLY PRICE ACTION)
Trading without any kind of technical indicators is familiarly described as
trading naked.Naked traders only use price action, along with areas of sup-
port and resistance, pivot levels, swing highs and swing lows, tests of tops
or bottoms, etc. Price action is how the money moves.
As you saw earlier, an up bar is a bar with a higher high and a higher
low than the preceding bar. Up bars signal an uptrend. The close is higher
than the open, and on the last bar of the trend, the close will be lower than

216 FOREXTRADINGSECRETS
the open because there will be more sellers than buyers on that last bar. A
down bar is a bar that has a lower high and a lower low than the preceding
bar. Down bars signal a downtrend. The close will be lower than the open,
and on the last bar of the trend, the close will be higher than the open
because there will be more buyers than sellers on that last bar.
Inside bars represent a market deliberation or indecision. The market is
also denominated a narrow-range bar, in which its high is lower than the
preceding bar and its low is higher than the preceding bar. An outside bar
or engulfing bar has a higher high and a lower low than the preceding bar.
When the open is in the bottom quarter or third of the bar and the close is
in the top quarter or third of the bar, the engulfing bar is bullish engulfing,
and the buyers are in control; conversely, when the open is in the top quar-
ter or third of the bar and the close is in the bottom quarter or third, the
engulfing bar is bearish engulfing, and the sellers are in control.
When the trend is going on, it will be continuously making higher
highs and higher lows if it is an uptrend or lower highs and lower lows in
the case of a downtrend. When the price stops making those higher/lower
highs and lows, the trend is said to be broken.Then comes usually a period
of consolidation or ranging, which thereafter resumes in the same direc-
tion, as a continuation of the previous trend, or either breaks out in the
opposite direction in the case of a reversal. You can use multiple time
frames to help you understand the behavior of prices and determine if they
are trending or ranging.
It is perfectly possible that one time frame is trending in one direction
and the other higher or lower time frame is trending in the opposite direc-
tion or is showing a consolidation pattern. There are infinite trends within
trends. Price can be rising on a daily chart but meanwhile in a retracement
or correction on a smaller time frame.
The best way to start to understand naked price action is to practice
visually and observe the behavior patterns in several time frames simulta-
neously, determining the trend that is showing in each of them. For exam-
ple, a 15-minute price action can be showing only two trends; meanwhile,
the 5-minute price action is possibly showing five different trends for the
same period. You can, of course, trade the smaller time-frame trends, but
waiting for every time frame to align in the same direction as the larger
time frame is signaling would be really trading with the trend.
Trading naked is the ultimate way to trade because in the end, everything
can be narrowed down to the price. Any technical indicator or instrument is
always directly related to price behavior and will only reflect what is already
shown in the numbers.

12
C H A P T E R
SUPPORT AND
RESISTANCE
Two of the most important subjects of FOREX technical analysis are sup-
port and resistance, which refer to the price levels at which there seems to
be a barrier beyond which the price of a currency pair may not keep falling
or rising. They are often viewed as quite complex because despite the obvi-
ous simplicity behind the concept, support and resistance can be deter-
mined in several ways, and it is not always easy to understand how they
work or to master their use.
Support and resistance are key levels, mostly price areas or zones instead
of a particular single price, where supply and demand meet and are of equal
strength, neutralizing each other’s forces. Supply is when traders are selling
the base currency; demand is when a currency is being bought.Prices change
when there is an imbalance between supply and demand, and one of the sides
win. Prices rise when demand is higher and decrease when supply is greater.
When both are at the same level, the market is said to be moving sideways,
and there is a struggle between bulls and bears to take control.
SUPPORT
Supportis the level where demand has acquired enough strength to stop the
prices from decreasing further. As the price gets cheaper, more buyers are
looking to hold the currency, and fewer sellers want to give it away. When
217

218 FOREXTRADINGSECRETS
the prices reach the support level, usually the demand and supply tend to
get even or the number of buyers overcomes the number of sellers, and this
will prevent the price from falling through the support level.
However, support levels sometimes are broken, which indicates that the
selling pressure is still strong and that the bearish sentiment has taken over
the bullish impulse. There is a renewal of the incentive to sell, and buyers
stop wanting to acquire the currency. Since breakouts occur with a certain
momentum, it is not until the next lower support level that buyers might
come back into the picture, and the same struggle will present itself
between bulls and bears. If the support holds, then there will be a bounce
from the support, and the bullish sentiment will have won the battle.
Support levels are established under the current price, but since the
support levels are not set at an exact price but rather mostly in an area of
possible prices, volatility could cause prices to drop a little below a given
support level without effectively breaking it. This is why it is preferable to
establish support zones. A small dip will have no strength to indicate a
breakout; usually a certain number of points and other confirmatory indica-
tors are needed to really consider that a support level has been broken. The
most common confirmation is a retest and bounce from the support level
after it has been crossed. At that moment, the support becomes resistance.
RESISTANCE
Resistance is the level where selling pressure acquires enough strength to
stop the price from a further increase. As the price goes up and keeps
advancing toward resistance, more sellers will want to enter the market,
and fewer buyers will be willing to buy. At the moment the price reaches
the resistance level, as happens with support, both sides tend to get even,
and sellers even may overcome the number of buyers, thus bouncing back
and driving the prices lower.
When resistance does not hold, and a new buying surge pushes the
market, the price will break above the resistance, signaling that the bullish
sentiment has won the battle and bears are not interested in selling any-
more. Buyers will be buying at higher prices until they reach a further
resistance level, which will form after the initial momentum of the second
move fades away.
Resistance levels are established above the current price, but in the
same way that happens with support levels. You should consider resis-
tance levels more like a zone, and small rallies or peaks through the level

CHAPTER12 SUPPORTANDRESISTANCE 219
shouldn’t be taken as a breakout signal unless the price really has
increased by a fair number of points and there is further confirmation.
This is commonly seen by means of a small pullback and retest of the
recently broken resistance, where the price will bounce back up and con-
firm the bullish sentiment, making that resistance become a support.
TRENDLINES
A trendline is an ascending or descending price level that can be drawn
between at least two lower highs in a downtrend or two higher lows in an
uptrend. This level then is seen as a constant barrier that prevents the price
from going higher or lower, forming a certain range that can be parallel or
converging in the case of triangular formations.
The level formed by this trendline constitutes a support or a resistance
and usually is a place where the prices will bounce back in the opposite
direction. An upper resistance is formed every time the price action slows
down and pulls back to the trendline in an uptrend and every time a bearish
move runs out of steam and moves back to the lower highs trendline in a
downtrend. This occurs because of profit-taking or market uncertainty after
a prolonged move, creating a defined range between the trendlines and the
series of tops or bottoms.
Traders usually will watch for the prices to reach the top or bottom lev-
els of the range and buy or sell accordingly when other confirmatory con-
ditions are met.
MOVING AVERAGES
Moving averages can be of help in identifying levels of support and resis-
tance. In either of its forms, a moving average is a reflection of the
dynamic price level that has the greater incidence. When the trend is
going up, the price finds its support at the moving average. This indicator
acts as a resistance when the trend is going down. Some values—or num-
ber of periods averaged—will work better than others and also depend on
the relative time frames. Experimentation is needed to find which moving
average is best suited to show the levels of support and resistance in each
particular trading situation, but there are specific periods, such as the
exponential moving average (EMA) or the simple moving average (SMA)
200 (which can signify 200 days, weeks, hours, or minutes with regard to

220 FOREXTRADINGSECRETS
the distinct time frames), that seem to work independently of the time
variable. I personally like how the prices behave when near the SMA 34;
I find this value quite appropriate to predict bounces and potential targets
for taking profits or exiting a position.
OTHER INDICATORS
Many other indicators can be used to identify areas of support and resis-
tance. One of them is the Fibonacci retracement tool, which was described
in detail in Chapter 11.
Being able to determine future levels of support or resistance is an
important way to improve FOREX trading returns by getting a more accu-
rate view of the possible levels that can be reached and the most probable
reaction of the prices when those levels are hit. In this way, targets and
stops can be set in a more precise form, and a trader can avoid entering a
position at places where the price is more likely to reverse.
Independent of the method you use to foresee the levels where price is
going to encounter a pressure against its current direction, in all of them the
significance of the support or resistance is the same: Those are the levels
beyond which the price of the currency pair or financial asset that you are
trading probably will not move in either direction.

CHAPTER12 SUPPORTANDRESISTANCE 221
ENTERING POSITIONS
The establishment of areas of support and resistance allows traders to
choose a more precise entry point for their positions. The forces of sup-
ply and demand show clear patterns and can be predicted, provided that
other indicators or patterns confirm the potential reversal or continuation
of a trend.
When the market is alternating inside those extreme zones, there is
certain stability between supply and demand. When the forces of supply
overcome the forces of demand, or vice versa, there is a breakout of the
range delineated by support and resistance, and other zones are reached
that will act as such, and the broken levels will turn into their opposite.
There is an old adage that says, “Buy low; sell high.” This means buy
at the support level, and sell at the resistance level, provided that the condi-
tions maintaining the prices inside a given range are still valid. Breakout
entries would respond to the inverse—sell low; buy high—after the break-
out point. How can you determine that a particular support or resistance is
holding or if its weakness will lead to a breakout? You saw in Chapter 11
that many technical patterns can help to identify the potential weakness or
strength of a certain move.
A rejection of the support or resistance level, followed by a retest and
subsequent bounce back inside the channel, is a good indication to enter a
position. Candlestick patterns of reversal and moving averages, as well as
pivot lines and any oscillator that can show an oversold or overbought con-
dition, will help in the decision. In the case of a breakout, a break of the
trendline, followed by a retest of the trendline from above or below, and the
subsequent bounce back with the former support becoming resistance or
the former resistance turning into support is also a good confirmation for
an entry point, with the help of the preceding indicators to ensure a safer
decision.
Identifying main support and resistance levels is a key element leading
to a successful technical analysis. When you are aware of their existence
and location, it is much easier to forecast and be prepared when prices
move near those levels. Look for extra signs of an increase in the buying or
selling pressure and potential reversal and volume of transactions. When a
support or resistance level has been broken, this signals that there has been
a change in the relationship between supply and demand. A resistance
breakout signals that the bulls are stronger than the bears, and a support
break indicates that the bears have won the battle.

222 FOREXTRADINGSECRETS
EXITING POSITIONS
Support and resistance levels provide excellent areas to set target profits or
simply exit a position manually. You can either chose to trade a single posi-
tion or split it into two or more parts, which you will be exiting progres-
sively at every level based on a preset plan.
When setting a stop loss based on support and resistance, the stop level
should be set a few points (usually 5 or 10 depending on the time frame that
you will be using) below or above the most recent strong point of support
or resistance. This can be determined through observation of the levels
where the price has stalled most often or with the use of fractals, Fibonacci
levels, pivots, and psychological levels.
A target profit will be set inversely, a few points below a strong pro-
jected resistance, pivot, or Fibonacci level or above a support that has
proven to be holding. It is important not to forget the spread of the particu-
lar currency pair that you are trading and the side, or direction, on which
your trades are placed because what is commonly defined as actual priceis
usually the bid price on most platforms. For example, on short positions,
the price used to close will be the ask or offer price, so be sure to add or
subtract the spread from any calculations.
When there is a strong expectation of a continued trend, positions can be
split into several parts, and actions can be performed sequentially on each of
them. For example, with this approach, a trader would exit one of the parts
at the first perceived strong resistance or support level and set the stop losses
on the remaining parts of the trade to breakeven (the entry price) or, better,
to one positive point, thereafter exiting the next part at the next support or
resistance level and trailing the stop losses or simply letting the free trades
run to gather the most possible profits from the overall position.
PIVOT POINTS:DO THEY WORK?
“Big dogs” are a very important part of the market. Usually the settings
used by the greater number of people will work the best because every-
body will be reacting to those levels at the same time and place. However,
I would recommend testing different approaches so that you can determine
by yourself which settings work more accurately on your charts.
The key is support/resistance—former levels at which the price has
been rejected many times—as well as channels and trendlines too. Also,
pivots should be considered as zones more than a particular and exact price

CHAPTER12 SUPPORTANDRESISTANCE 223
(especially because there are differences among most brokers on prices that
can go as far as 10 to 12 pips).
I want to point out that this is my personal opinion: I check the pivots
but personally prefer the psychological levels to work with short term in 1
minute increments also known as M1, which I consider to be small pivots
in themselves.
Price goes in waves, not linearly. When price action is observed in a
very small time frame, you can see that at every lower level, a “decision”
must be made, a price is approved or rejected. Bulls or bears win the small
battle, then go on to the next level or come back to the previous one, and
later on “decide” to retest again until the level breaks or the opposite party
wins and rejects the “proposed” price, just like a staircase. Then the key
levels (previous bigger staircases on larger time frames) are made by the
support or resistance levels that held through many attempts at being
crossed.
Pivots are, like Fibonacci lines, the result of a calculation made based
on an analysis of historical data, and in a certain way and because of it, they
can become a self-fulfilling prediction because everyone is watching the

224 FOREXTRADINGSECRETS
same prices and has the same information. Thus, indeed, the best pivots
will be those that are used by the greater number of traders.
For me, it’s more logical to start the day when the FOREX day “offi-
cially” starts in Sydney through the New York close (5 p.m. Eastern Time).
In my opinion, this doesn’t matter much because in the end, you won’t have
more than 24 hours in a daily candle.
The pivot indicator is based on the high-low and close price of the daily
candle (calculated with respect to every different set of settings and based
on 24 sequential hourly candles), which will show differently on each plat-
form according to its own time zone.
The “daily session” consists of the whole day (all the markets
involved), and personally, I don’t think that two hours difference can make
much noise unless there’s a huge move at the end of the day (New York
close), and even then, I don’t think it would matter because it would be
compensated by the hours not taken from the preceding day.
Settings that start at Greenwich Mean Time (GMT) 00:00 (eight hours
before the London session) are perhaps a more normalized time where
more people calculate the pivots (you would have to know how many bro-
kers start the day with GMT 00:00). Mine starts with the Sydney session
two hours earlier because it seems more logical to me, since most markets

CHAPTER12 SUPPORTANDRESISTANCE 225
open on Sunday at the Sydney open and close on Friday at the New York
close. Other people may like to base the close/open of the daily candle on
the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) close at 4 p.m. Eastern Time. The
more people who use the same setting, the more probabilities there will be
for a pivot price to become predictable. This works exactly like the
Fibonacci levels.
Since I see pivots more as a range level (or zone) than a particular
exact price (and I prefer to take into account the psychological levels any-
way), it doesn’t bother me much if my pivot is 5 pips up or 5 pips down
(because, anyway, prices between brokers differ sometimes by as much as
10 or more pips, and in some, there can be huge spikes that don’t show on
the others; this in respect to high highs and low lows). Therefore, it’s
really relative, and real support/resistances, which can be seen on the
charts at the levels the price went and bounced back, in my opinion are
more accurate.
Exactly the same is true for Fibonacci levels. It is impossible to calcu-
late prices to the pip because of all the preceding. You can easily take a look
at several sites that show the daily pivots, and there will be differences
among them, too.
STANDARD FIBONACCI
R3 H + 2 (Pivot – L) R3 Pivot + 1.000 * (H – L)
R2 Pivot + (H – L R2 Pivot + 0.618 * (H – L)
R1 (2 × Pivot) – L R1 Pivot + 0.382 * (H – L)
Pivot (H + L + C) / 3 Pivot (H + L + C) / 3
S1 (2 x Pivot) – H S1 Pivot – 0.382 * (H – L)
S2 Pivot – (H – L) S2 Pivot – 0.618 * (H – L)
S3 L – 2(H – L) S3 Pivot – 1.000 * (H – L)
CAMARILLA WOODIE
R4 R4 = C + RANGE * 1.1/2 R4 R3 + RANGE
R3 R3 = C + RANGE * 1.1/4 R3 R1 + RANGE
R2 R2 = C + RANGE * 1.1/6 R2 PP + RANGE
R1 R1 = C + RANGE * 1.1/12 R1 R1 = (2 * PP) – LOW
Pivot (H + L + C) / 3 Pivot (H + L + C) / 3
S1 R1 = C – RANGE * 1.1/12 S1 R1 = (2 * PP) – HIGH
S2 R2 = C – RANGE * 1.1/6 S2 PP – RANGE
S3 R3 = C – RANGE * 1.1/4 S3 S1 – RANGE
S4 R4 = C – RANGE * 1.1/2 S4 S3 – RANGE

226 FOREXTRADINGSECRETS
DEMARK PIVOT POINTS
Tom DeMark, in calculating pivots projections, differentiates three situa-
tions:
1. Close (cid:6)open:
PHigh(cid:2)[(H(cid:5)H(cid:5)L(cid:5)C)/2](cid:4)L
PLow (cid:2)[(H(cid:5)H(cid:5)L(cid:5)C)/2](cid:4)H
2. Close (cid:7)open:
PHigh(cid:2)[(H(cid:5)L(cid:5)L(cid:5)C)/2](cid:4)L
PLow (cid:2)[(H(cid:5)L(cid:5)L(cid:5)C)/2](cid:4)H
3. Close (cid:2)open:
PHigh(cid:2)[(H(cid:5)L(cid:5)C(cid:5)C)/2](cid:4)L
PLow (cid:2)[(H(cid:5)L(cid:5)C(cid:5)C)/2](cid:4)H
In intraday application with open (yesterday open), H (yesterday high), L
(yesterday low), and close (yesterday close).
PSYCHOLOGICAL LEVELS
You might have noticed that you are constantly rounding off numbers in
your daily activities. You tend to see round numbers as more perfect and
whole and are invariably drawn to use them, especially numbers that end in
zero. These round numbers also play an important role in FOREX trading.
If you take a look at previous support and resistance levels, you might
discover a common characteristic that prices have with respect to certain
prices: They can be seen as usually having difficulty moving past a round
price, such as, for example, $100. Other strong levels are prices ending in
5, or quarter prices,such as 25 or 75. There is also a curious behavior that
I have noticed that I can only associate with Fibonacci levels around prices
ending on 66 and 33. All these are said to be psychological levels.Human
beings also tend to be attracted to numbers that are factors of 10, a theory
suggested by the fact that we have 10 fingers and toes for counting.
Hitting a major 00 mark is a quite common goal, and often it will be
tested and tried until it is reached or crossed, only for the price to come
back soon afterwards because the final milestone was reached, and the mar-
ket continues toward its next new goal.
Supports and resistances are being created at those round-number
levels through the accumulation of pending limit or stop orders. This also
could be a reason why those levels are bounced off sometimes when they

CHAPTER12 SUPPORTANDRESISTANCE 227
have been barely touched and, conversely, the price experiences a surge as
soon as it has crossed the level for a few points. Limit orders will be
placed a little below the higher round-number price or above the lower
round-number price, whereas stop orders usually are placed beyond
either level.
Most target prices or stop-loss orders are placed by market participants
at round-number price levels because these are perceived to be a fair value
and a more perfect price than nonround numbers. For example, the $100
mark will be more attractive to a trader than a price of $101.02 or $99.96.
Such large numbers of orders act as a strong price barrier and, when trig-
gered, will cause the price to bounce back. The levels are said to be psy-
chological because there is no other logical, technical, or fundamental
reason to explain the reaction of the market except for this simple attraction
to round numbers.
Banks are known for implementing most orders around these levels, as
can be seen from the relative volumes on the Interbank. Large pools of
orders accumulate, and when the price level is reached, they are triggered,
causing an avalanche in the contrarian direction, which is perceived on
charts as a strong bounce.
This is very important information for traders, who then can base their
strategies on this peculiarity of the markets and increase their profits by
going with the flow.
----·

228 FOREXTRADINGSECRETS
Round numbers can be better employed on smaller time frames. The
first bounce from a round-number support or resistance is usually the
strongest, and every time a round number is hit, a series of orders is exe-
cuted. With every successive reach of the same level, the volume of orders
decreases; if at any moment this volume is not strong enough to keep hold-
ing the support or resistance, the level will break.
Although successive moves from a support or resistance level also can
yield handsome profits, it is better to try to take advantage of the first time
the price hits the level and comes back because this is the moment when the
volume is at its strongest peak for a rejection.
This penchant for round numbers is common to all trading markets but
is especially dominant in the FOREX market. The principal reason behind
this phenomenon is that, simply, most human beings are attracted to round
numbers, and as long as trading is performed by human beings, the condi-
tion will recur.
USING MULTIPLE TIME FRAMES
When you look at multiple time frames, you can get a much better idea
of what is happening with a currency pair. You should use at least two
time frames, one to spot the trend and the other to pinpoint your entries at

CHAPTER12 SUPPORTANDRESISTANCE 229
a better price. However, the best option is to use from three to four time
frames, especially when you are swing trading, because the perspective
will be much broader, and you will be able to understand how the market
moves.
For example, in a usual swing trading situation, where the main chart is
located in the daily time frame, you can use the weekly, daily, 1-hour, and
5-minute charts. Here is a short description of what you should look for in
each of those time frames, and if you are trading intraday, you can translate
the method to the series of smaller time frames.
Main Chart or Charting Workspace (cid:2)Daily Chart
Buy and sell decisions are made here. You find the setups and signals given
by your system to get to trading opportunities. You can see a general
medium-term trend. However, you need to know what the longer-term
trend is.
Overview of the General Trend (cid:2)Weekly Chart
In this chart, you can step back and see what the longer-term trend looks
like. You can find more data than in the daily chart earlier in time. You also
can check the significant patterns to confirm that the decision made based
on the daily trend is probably correct.
Looking Closer (cid:2)1-Hour Chart
You switch to a broader representation in detail of what is really going on
during the day. You can see the smaller swings that occur that can’t be seen
in a single candle on the daily chart. For example, when you are buying
consecutive pullbacks on the daily chart that have a series of consecutive
lower highs, you will be able to see that the prices are showing a downtrend
on the hourly chart. Thus you will be looking for a break of that trendline
in this time frame and enter at the appropriate time.
The Magnifying Glass (cid:2)5-Minute Chart
The 5-minute chart is the smaller time frame, the one you will be using to
time your entries. Your setup is perfect on the daily chart, and you have
already checked the weekly chart to gauge the patterns and to be sure of
the current main trend. You have drawn the trendline on the hourly chart
and are waiting for a break. The decision to enter a long position is
already made, and you will wait until the price pulls back to a support
level on the smaller chart so as to enter at the best possible price.

230 FOREXTRADINGSECRETS
Every time frame has an effect on every other time frame, from the
smaller ones to the bigger ones. Using smaller time frames for entries
allows you to enter at better prices, thus giving you the opportunity to use
much tighter stop losses than if you just traded off the main chart. Check
every time frame, and spot the support and resistance levels and chart and
candlesticks patterns. Finally, a good point of reference for general sup-
port and resistance is the SMA 200, which you should use in all time
frames. I personally also add the SMA 34 because I have found that the
prices always will bounce at least once from this particular moving aver-
age before resuming a move.
This type of multiple-chart analysis can improve your success as
a swing trader. Your main goal is to identify the areas of support and resis-
tance and to check if there is an alignment of your preferred setup on most
of the time frames chosen. The more all the time frames are in alignment,

CHAPTER12 SUPPORTANDRESISTANCE 231
the greater the opportunity for success. Try to look at two additional time
frames along with your main chart. The lower time frame will be telling
you what is happening in the present, and the higher time frame will show
you what could happen in the future!
TREND IS YOUR FRIEND
The end of a trend is signaled when it stops making progressively higher (or
lower) highs and higher (or lower) lows. A trend reverses its previous direc-
tion when the price begins making progressively lower (or higher) lows and
lower (or higher) highs. However, you need to filter out any consolidation
pattern (e.g., a flag in an uptrend may be making lower lows and lower
highs, but its consequence is a further continuation almost three out of four
times). For this, you can observe the momentum of the move or use moving
averages or another indicator crossing to determine if there is a reversal of
the trend or if it is only a pause before the strength of the trend resumes.
Very often, when the market looks the most bullish or bearish and
everybody is jumping in, this is precisely the moment when professional
FOREX traders will be loading their positions in the contrarian direction.
Be very aware not to be late when entering a trend. At the same time, never
trade against a trend (unless you are swing trading in a range or scalping in
smaller time frames). When the trend is strong, apparent reversal patterns
may have no meaning, and the reversal never happens, unless it is for just a
few pips. In a strong market such as this, you trade breakouts—and that’s it.
Very often there isn’t even a pullback to trade, and by the time a pullback
happens, the move is already over. In a market such as this, the energy has
to slow down before it can reverse.

This page intentionally left blank

13
C H A P T E R
AUTOMATED TRADING
EXPERT ADVISORS AND AUTOMATIC PROGRAMMING
INTERFACES (APIs)
Trading systems are a series of rules that traders use to determine their
entries and exits from a position. A well-designed trading system can help
traders to attain consistent returns while limiting risk through its money-
management specifications. In an ideal situation, traders should follow
their system rules like robots, executing trades systematically and without
emotion. However, the human condition makes this last part a little diffi-
cult, and this is why automated systems have started gaining in popularity.
I have always said the number one mistake investors make is that they
let their emotions get in the way. To increase your winning percentage, you
must trade emotion-free. A good system will help you to refine your abil-
ity to stick to your trading rules. The advent of program trading, which is
nothing new, can maximize your opportunities. Program trading (robots)
has really made headway with individual investors. With all the advances in
personal computing, this is an area where I have spent considerable time
and money on research and development. All my software, as well as new
software yet to be released, incorporates some state-of-the-art program-
ming language that allows all my customers to take advantage of the latest
robots to trade for you.
The importance of an automated system is reflected in its wide array of
uses in the financial markets. The FOREX market is not only the biggest
market worldwide in terms of daily turnover but also because it involves the
233

234 FOREXTRADINGSECRETS
largest number of participants. Many of the biggest players in the FOREX
market use a diversity of automated systems to help in their decision mak-
ing and overall organization of the trading process.
Today, most of the order flow goes through a computerized communi-
cations network. This facilitates the use of computer-based automation.
Automated trading systems are created simply by converting the rules of
your trading system into code that can be interpreted by your computer and
the software that is employed to interact on the financial markets. The com-
puter runs those rules through your trading software, and the system itself
will be looking for trades that comply with the coded rules. When the
appropriate conditions are met, the system will place the trades automati-
cally directly with your broker.
Many brokerage firms and platforms support automated trading sys-
tems. Such systems can be used in a totally automated manner or as semi-
automatic variants, where the trader will be given a signal when conditions
are met, and the trader will take the final decision of opening the trade.
Some brokers require an authorization to be able to implement an auto-
mated system on your account.
These kinds of trading systems have many advantages, but they also
have some negative aspects. The positive side is that all the emotion and
stress are taken out of the picture. The hard work already has been done
through the development and testing of the trading strategy, and thereafter,
you only need to focus on its improvement and, of course, applying money-
management rules. As long as market conditions do not change and the sys-
tem has proven to be profitable in its development phase, it will not require
additional work on your part. The negative aspects come from the fact that
if the code is not defined and tested properly before using it in a real-money
account, you could face losing trades. In addition, there are some combina-
tions of rules that can’t be translated to a code, especially when the system
includes a discretionary approach, making it difficult to develop.
The following are the main areas to pay attention to if you decide to
work with a trading robot: backtesting and performance and market phases
(whether it is trending or ranging).
It is of an extreme importance to do a thorough backtesting of your sys-
tem until you are sure that it performs well with historical data. Then trade it
on a demo account to make sure that there will be no surprises along the way
and that actual performance is equivalent to that which resulted from the
backtesting. Very few strategies perform well in both phases of the markets
because the conditions present in a ranging market are very different from
those in a trending market. Be sure to use and implement the appropriate

CHAPTER13 AUTOMATEDTRADING 235
strategy for each of those situations, either in a single system or by develop-
ing and using two alternate automated systems.
Additionally, it is important that you keep things simple and that your
code is well documented so as to be able to find out quickly when a portion
of it is not performing or you need to change some of the conditions.
Changes to code should be done one at a time so that you can more precisely
pinpoint which changes improve the performance of the system and which
ones set it back. Finally, make sure that you know what strategy operates
behind your trading system. Sometimes the coded version can become so
complex that it deviates from the original rules of the trading strategy.
ADVANCED ROBOTS:NEURAL NETWORKS IN THE FOREX
The first research on neural networks began back at the beginning of the
nineteenth century, but only between the 1940s and 1950s, in the twentieth
century, did the study of neural networks acquire its major strength, thanks
to the Connectionist movement. This movement sustained the theory that
the secret of learning processes and knowledge can be found in axioms or
unquestionable truths; members of this movement affirmed that knowledge
is independent of the structure that handles the symbols and that the repre-
sentation of knowledge is done from the most basic stratum of intelli-
gence—the brain, especially the neurons and the multiple interconnections
between them.
This important interest in neural networks decreased in the 1970s
because researchers such as Minsky and Papert in 1969 indicated that there
were limitations in the learning processes of the architectures of neural net-
works that had been used until then. In their book, Perceptrons,they made a
detailed analysis of the perceptron and considered that its extension to a
multilayered structure was a totally sterile activity (the original perceptron,
a neural network under research, possessed only one layer). The limitations
of the perceptron were quite important, especially its failure to resolve
many problems simultaneously. This caused a setback in the development
of neural networks that lasted more than 10 years.
Advances in technology and in knowledge about the structure of the
brain gave a new impetus to interest in neural networks that has allowed the
development of a growing number of applications in several different fields
and with diverse purposes. Artificial neural networks now are established as
a technique of massive and parallel processing of information that emulates
the essential characteristics of the neural structure of the biologic brain.

236 FOREXTRADINGSECRETS
One of the fields in which these data-analysis methods have been intro-
duced is the automated FOREX world. Neural networks consist of a large
number of processing units that are linked together by weighted probabili-
ties. They are a model that exhibits behavior that is similar to the working
and learning of the human brain. This model “thinks and learns” based on
the results of the previous actions.
Neural networks can be trained to interpret data and draw conclusions
from them. They are able to take in multiple streams of data and give a sin-
gle result as the outcome of their calculations. New forms of quantification
of those data can be added to the series of factors that the neural network
considers before it makes a decision, and the new forms will be processed
along with the previous ones. This is why neural networks are being used
increasingly in the FOREX to make price predictions.
The network is trained to adjust itself based on specific patterns that
form between the time of the input data and the output it generates. This is
quite time-consuming, but in the end, it will provide the neural network
with the ability to predict a future outcome based on historical data. When
it is presented with examples of pairs of input and output data, the network
can “learn” the dependencies and apply those dependencies when pre-
sented with new data. Thereafter, the network can compare the new data
with output it has generated previously and determine how far from or
close to the real data its prediction was, go back and adjust the relationships
among the various factors that determine the calculations, and keep on
adjusting until it reaches the correct answer and the output is equivalent to
the real event.
The training has to be performed with two different sets of data: the
data specifically used for training and the data that will be used in testing.
The neural network can continue to learn by continuously comparing the
predictions it makes with the data that are being given to the system. The
neural network also combines technical and fundamental data in its calcu-
lations; in this way, it can find additional patterns that might not have been
included in earlier considerations and apply them to the prediction, coming
up with very accurate results.
However, the output will be as good as the input data it is fed. The neural
network is very good at correlations independent of the amount of data you
are introducing in the process. It will be able to recognize patterns even
among extremely different types of information, even if there is no existing
relationship or particular pattern. Most important, the neural network can
apply its intelligence without clouding it with emotions. However, this can
become a weakness when unknown factors are introduced, such as, for

CHAPTER13 AUTOMATEDTRADING 237
example, when dealing with a volatile market, where it has no way of
assigning emotional weight to events.
Many trading platforms actually include neural network theories and
technology that will teach your particular system about the network and
use its predictions and capacity to generate direct buy or sell orders based
on those outputs. You can build your own neural network, but as in any of
the different ways of applying a trading system, you first will have to
thoroughly learn the process so that you can know exactly what you are
doing and what you can expect. Know your system, its scope, and its
basic tenets so that you can more likely attain the success you are looking
for in your trading. Learn as much as you can. Automation can be a pow-
erful impulse to the future growth of the FOREX market because it sim-
plifies many processes and brings about many more positive outcomes
than negative issues.
The use of an automated FOREX trading system allows traders to open
positions in real time at any moment and from any place in the world. Espe-
cially in highly volatile markets, the delays are practically nonexistent, and
thus most of the usual losses in manually operated systems that stem from
delays in buying or selling in a fast-moving environment are avoided. In the
same way, traders will be able to operate simultaneously in a wide range of
currency markets at the same time because the automated system has no
time limitations and can be set to work the whole 24 hours of the day.
Neural networks and artificial intelligence are the best method for
economic modeling. Those robots adapt and are able to evolve and change
based on market conditions and to train themselves based on a particular
algorithm with a coded set of rules that will allow them to make the cor-
rect decisions. They will detect the most important input factors out of
hundreds of factors that are used in the first phase of the network training
setup. The selected factors then are employed to fine-tune forecasts on the
training and test sets in order to maximize accuracy and profit. The results
have proven that neural networks can be implemented very successfully to
forecast the movements in the financial market.

This page intentionally left blank

6
P A R T
BUILDING YOUR
PORTFOLIO

This page intentionally left blank

14
C H A P T E R
SECRETS TO FOREX
DIVERSIFICATION
The ideal investment scenario is to have several alternatives so as not to put
“all your eggs in one basket” and thus minimize the risks by broadening
your portfolio’s scope. The most common alternatives are marketable secu-
rities, which are very liquid assets that can be converted into cash quickly
at a fair price. Their maturities usually represent less than one year, and the
rate at which they can be bought or sold has little effect on their prices.
Some examples of marketable securities include commercial paper,
banker’s acceptances, Treasury bills, and other money-market instruments.
Among them, and beyond trading FOREX currency pairs, you can
invest in options, futures, exchange-traded funds, and contracts for differ-
ence, commodities, indices, and securities.
FOREX OPTIONS
Anoptionis a contract through which the buyer, by means of paying a pre-
mium, acquires the right, though not the obligation, to buy or sell a partic-
ular asset at a given price—the execution price—on a certain date or before
a future date, which is the expiration time. Options are negotiated in over
the counter (OTC) and in organized markets. These are the financial prod-
ucts that offer the best possibilities of coverage and speculation, and they
offer a high level of liquidity and low transaction costs.
241

242 FOREXTRADINGSECRETS
For example, in the usual way, an investor who anticipates a rise in the
price of wheat could buy the wheat directly and store it, waiting to sell it
later to gain a profit if the price rises. Another way of benefiting from
the price rise without having to mess with storage would be to buy a call
option on the same amount of wheat for a three-month period. If three
months later the price has risen, it will be good for both the first investor
who bought directly and the one who bought the option. The difference
is that the first investor would have to pay in full for the wheat bought;
meanwhile, the option only requires the investor to pay a premium that
represents a very small percentage of the actual price. If the first investor
bought $500 worth of wheat, and the price increased to revalue his or her
investment to $700, he or she will have made a profit of $200, which
represents 40 percent of his or her initial investment. Conversely, the
second investor used a small capital represented by the premium, which
could be of $10, and realized a gain on the option of $200 (the difference
between the previous price and the risen price), so the return on his or her
investment would be of $190, that is, 1900 percent!
An important feature of options is that they are negotiable instruments
in the market, and it is not necessary to materialize the transaction physi-
cally; you can buy an option for $10 and then sell it on the market for $200
with a profit of $190 while never having had the intention of really buying
the asset.
Options are divided into calls and puts. A callis the right to buy a par-
ticular asset; you can buy a call (buy the rights) or sell a call (sell the
rights). The buyer of a call has the right, but not the obligation, to buy the
asset (underlying asset) at a certain price (execution price) on a certain
date or prior to that date, which is the expiration time, in exchange for a
premium that the investor pays to the seller of the call. A putis the right to
sell an asset. You can buy or sell a put (the right to buy or sell). The buyer
of a put has the right, but not the obligation, to buy the asset (the real asset)
at a certain price (execution price) on a certain date or prior to that date,
which is the expiration time, in exchange for a premium that the investor
pays to the seller of the put. The right to buy or sell is acquired by the
holder of the option. The person who sells the option is called the writer.
Underlying assetsare the assets on which the option is negotiated. The
premiumis the cost of the option, that is, the price that gives the right to buy
(call) or sell (put) the underlying asset of an option. In the preceding exam-
ple, the premium would be represented by the $10.
When the holder executes the right to buy or sell, it is said that he or she
executes the contract. The execution price, or strike price, is the price at

CHAPTER14 SECRETSTOFOREX DIVERSIFICATION 243
which the right is granted to buy or sell (call or put) an option. The expiry
dateis the date on which the option contract expires.
There are three basic types of options: the American option,which can
be executed at any moment until its expiry date; the European option,
which can only be executed at the moment of its expiration; and the Asian
option,whose price on the expiry date does not depend on the price of the
underlying asset at that moment but on the average of its consecutive prices
during a determined time period.
Options are commonly perceived as being a high-risk investment; how-
ever, this is not always true because certain positions in options bear much
less risk than physical acquisition of the underlying asset. You could say
that the maximum risk of option holders is the premium that has to be paid.
The maximum risk of the writers or sellers is usually unlimited, and their
maximum benefit is the option premium.
RISKS AND BENEFITS OF BUYING A CALL OR A PUT
A call option will be placed when the price of a particular underlying asset
is perceived as rising. A put option will be acquired when the price of this
asset is in decline. In both cases, the risk to the investor is limited to the full
amount of the premium that has to be paid to perform the transaction,
which represents only a small fraction of the cost of the underlying asset.
However, if the prices don’t evolve in the projected direction, the risk of
loss is of all the premium paid.
Potential benefits are unlimited. In the case of a call, since the contract
gives the holder the right to buy at a fixed price, this right will acquire a
greater value as the price of the underlying asset increases. At the expiry
date, the investor will get the amount determined by the difference between
the execution price and the final price that has risen minus the premium
paid. In the case of a put, the benefit will be equal to the fall in price minus
the premium paid.
RISKS AND BENEFITS OF SELLING A CALL OR A PUT
When the price of the underlying asset is perceived as falling, selling a call
is the strategy to use. Puts are sold when the price is perceived to be on the
rise. The greatest benefit that can be obtained from selling both a call or a
put is the amount of the premium that the seller receives for his or her
option.
The greatest risk that can be incurred by selling a put is that the price
falls instead of rising; the greatest loss is the amount to the execution price
of the underlying asset minus the premium received. In the case of a call,

244 FOREXTRADINGSECRETS
the potential risk is unlimited because the price could rise indefinitely. This
is why selling calls or puts is extremely risky if the investor does not have
the underlying asset in his or her possession.
LEVERAGE
One of the most attractive characteristics of futures and options, and at the
same time the most dangerous, is that they can be used as leverage effect.
Theleverage effectis the relationship between the invested capital and the
result obtained from a given investment. The higher the leverage, the less
capital is needed to obtain a particular result.
For example, say that an investor buys one call on company ABC shares
with expiry in January 2009, paying a premium of $15 with an execution
price of $100 (expressed as “1 ABC January 100 call”). At the moment, the
shares of company ABC are quoted at $108. If on the expiry date the shares
are quoted at $120, the investor will execute his or her buying option and
will sell the shares on the market for $120. In this way, with an investment
of $15 (the premium paid), the investor has obtained a profit of $20; the
return he or she has gotten on the transaction is 133.33 percent. You can see
that the return on options is much higher.
However, the leverage works both ways. If on the expiry date the shares
of company ABC are quoted at $80, the investor would not execute his or
her buying option because although he or she still has the right to buy
shares at $100, he or she can buy them cheaper, at $80, in the market. In
this case, the investor would lose 100 percent of the investment, that is, the
$15 premium.
The leverage effect has to be treated with respect, and only experienced
investors should speculate with options and futures because it is very easy
to lose the whole investment and more.
To calculate the value of the premium of an option, the market usu-
ally employs the formula of Black and Scholes. Here is a simple example
on how it is calculated: You have a share quoted at $100, and you could
buy it in a year at $100. How much does this right cost? To answer this
question, let us suppose that at the end of the year, the price of the share
can only take one of two values: It either rises to $120 or it falls to $80.
Now, you want to build a portfolio by buying 50 shares and selling 100
calls. How much would that cost? You would have to pay 50 shares (cid:3)
$100(cid:2)$5000; however, you will not need to pay all that money because
for the options sold, you will receive $100 (cid:3) the price of each option,
which is still unknown. What you know is that if at the end of the year the
shares rise in price, your option will be valued at $100 and if they fall in

CHAPTER14 SECRETSTOFOREX DIVERSIFICATION 245
price, the option will have a value of 0. Thus the final value of your port-
folio will be $4000 if the share price rises (50 shares (cid:3)$120 per share (cid:4)
100 calls (cid:3) $20 per call) or $4000 if the share falls (50 shares (cid:3) $80 (cid:4)
100 calls (cid:3)$0 per call). You can see that the value of your portfolio does
not depend on the price of the share at that moment. That is, your portfo-
lio is not at risk and thus offers a return similar to one-year Treasury
bonds (the expiry date of the option).
If this nonrisk return is 5 percent, this implies that to get $4000 in a
year, you will have to invest today 4000/1.05 (cid:2) $3809.52; this is your
portfolio’s initial value. Since the 50 shares you have bought cost $5000,
the amount you should have received on the 100 options you have sold
would be 5000 (cid:4) 3809.52 (cid:2) $1190.48. For this reason, the price of each
option at the moment of initiation should be $11.90. If the price of the
option were lower or higher than $11.90, you could earn money by buying
options and selling shares, or vice versa, which would bring the price to its
theoretical value.
The Black and Scholes model uses an infinite number of subperiods
and repeats the preceding procedure an infinite number of times to calcu-
late the price of the option. In the example, the theoretical value of the
option applying this formula is of $11.90, very near to the value calculated
for a single period.
Some of the strategies used with options allow a more aggressive
approach to the market:
Bull spread.Buying a call or a put with a particular execution price
and selling another call or put with a higher execution price,
where both options must have the same expiry date and a rise in
the price of the underlying asset is expected.
Bear spread. Buying a call or a put with a given execution price
and selling another call or put with a lower execution price
(as in the bull spread, both options have the same expiry date).
In this case, a decrease in the price of the underlying asset is
expected.
Straddle buy.Buying a call and a put with the same execution price
and expiry date. The expectation is for great volatility to the
bullish as well as to the bearish side.
Strangle buy.Buying a call and a put with different execution prices
and the same date of expiry. As with the straddle, the strangle
expects great volatility in the financial markets, even higher than
in the preceding case.

246 FOREXTRADINGSECRETS
Butterfly.The buying and selling of options with three different
execution prices: (1) buying a call or a put with a low execution
price, (2) buying a call or a put with a high execution price, and
(3) selling two calls or two puts with execution prices at about
midway between the two preceding ones. The expectation is
oriented to a stable market.
SPOT FOREX OPTIONS
Single-payment options trading (SPOT) options are a slightly different
kind of FOREX option: The trader forecasts what is to happen in the
FOREX market. If the trader is right in his or her predictions, the possible
profit can be unlimited, and if the SPOT is unsuccessful, the trader loses
only the premium.
SPOT FOREX options are more flexible to set and execute, but the pre-
miums are higher than in traditional options. A basic example of how a
SPOT option works would be that the trader states his or her prediction on
the market: “EUR/USD will break through 1.4000 in 15 days.” The investor
gets a quote for the cost or premium associated with this option and will
receive a payout if, effectively, the prediction happens. The option is auto-
matically converted to cash when the trade is successful. If your prediction
is incorrect, you lose only the premium.
There are three basic variants of SPOT options: double one-touch,
one-touch, and double no-touch. A double one-touch option has two bar-
rier levels; either one has to be breached before the expiration date for
a profitable result. If none of them is crossed at expiration, the option loses
its value. This type of option is usually employed on news releases because
it is a nondirectional breakout prediction. If any of the barrier levels is bro-
ken, the payout will be made.
Aone-touch optionhas a single barrier level. This makes the option a lit-
tle less expensive than the double one-touch option. The same behavior
applies; the level has to be surpassed before expiration for the option to be of
value and yield a profit. This is a directional approach when you have good
probabilities of forecasting that the market is going in a particular direction.
Adouble no-touch optionis exactly the opposite of a double one-touch
option. Here, you also have two barrier levels, but in this case neither one
can be crossed before expiration. Otherwise, the option payout is not made.
This option is usually employed when the trader forecasts that prices will
remain in a range and that there will not be much volatility in the market.

CHAPTER14 SECRETSTOFOREX DIVERSIFICATION 247
Options are an excellent way to protect your existing positions by
means of a hedge in order to limit the risk. Some traders even use them to
replace stop losses.
FOREX FUTURES
Afutureis a standardized contract to buy or sell a specific asset at a fixed
future date and at a price previously agreed on. There are two parties in
a futures contract: the buyer and the seller. The buyer of the future has the
obligation to buy on a determined date; meanwhile, the seller has the obli-
gation to sell on that same date.
Futures contracts are negotiated in organized markets and thus are
standardized instruments; for example, a futures contract on steel can
involve 5 tons of the metal, or each contract can be set for 1 million dollars.
For this reason, futures are only negotiated in multiples of contracts; that is,
if you want to buy 50 tons of steel, you would have to buy 10 steel futures.
These standards offer liquidity by increasing the number of potential buyers
and sellers.
One tick is the minimum fluctuation allowed in the price of a futures
contract. Since every futures contract has a fixed size, the minimum fluc-
tuation will have a monetary value, which is the tick multiplied by the size
of the contract; this is known as the tick value.
All kinds of people use futures; some of them, for example, farmers,
use them to reduce risks; others look for a high rentability while assuming
greater risks to achieve it. In the futures markets, the risk is transferred
from the most conservative to the most aggressive traders.
Risk reduction is achieved by taking a termed position in the opposite
direction of the real-time market’s actual direction, trying to protect the
investment against contrarian moves of the market. This is known as cover-
age. Arbitrage is achieved by buying or selling in two different markets
(actual market price/futures), benefiting from the imperfections in each
one of them. Speculators try to maximize their profits in the shortest time
possible, thus assuming a very high risk in their investments.
In general terms, the prices of futures move in the same direction as
the market of physical assets. The transaction in futures implies that both
parties agree to buy and sell financial instruments or physical commodi-
ties that will be delivered in the future at a specific price. When you buy
a futures contract, you agree to buy something that the seller has not yet
produced. Physical goods are usually not exchanged nor delivered, unlike

248 FOREXTRADINGSECRETS
the transactions made between producers and consumers, but their prices
allow traders to hedge their risks or speculate. The futures market is very
risky and complex but also offers great liquidity.
Profits and losses are calculated on a daily basis. If the price of the
commodity or financial instrument rises, the seller’s account will be deb-
ited on the difference between the actual price and the value agreed on at
the moment of establishment of the contract; the buyer’s account will be
credited with the equivalent amount. The buyer has profited because the
price he or she is obligated to pay on the future is now less than the market
price. These adjustments are made every day as the market moves and
futures positions are settled. Thus gains and losses are deducted or credited
to each party’s account every day.
The futures market is a very important source of information about
sentiment in the market and other indicators. It is extremely active and is
the center of the global marketplace because transactions occur in the phys-
ical exchange of commodities and not only as pure financial speculation.
Prices can be determined through estimation of tomorrow’s levels of supply
and demand based on today’s transactions. Many factors intervene in the
definition of prices, and a constant flow of information renders the overall
operativity very transparent. On the other hand, risks are reduced because
the prices of the futures were set previously, which allows planning for the
quantities to be bought or sold. The result of a reduced risk is a higher sta-
bility in prices at the retail level because sellers will be less likely to push
prices too far to make up for their losses.
FOREX EXCHANGE-TRADED FUNDS (ETFs)
ETFs allow small investors to perform transactions in the stock markets
worldwide, for example, in countries such as China, India, Mexico, or
Brazil, and profit from their strong economic potential, thanks to the
present market globalization. These are funds that can be bought or sold on
the market exactly as if they were stock shares. Their cost is much smaller
than investing directly in the stock markets and without all the administra-
tive obstacles that could arise if a trader were to transact directly on site.
The offer of ETFs is presently limited, and few entities commercialize
them. They can be transacted through any financial intermediary such as
online brokerage firms or other entities that offer investment services. This
kind of instrument is very similar to an index and is the most attractive
option to invest in foreign markets that are difficult access.

CHAPTER14 SECRETSTOFOREX DIVERSIFICATION 249
As with stocks, the prices of ETFs are constantly changing throughout
the day based on supply and demand. The investor will be able to sell when-
ever he or she wants during the working hours of the specific market where
the particular ETF is being quoted by giving the sell order to his or her
financial intermediary.
The price paid to acquire a participation in an ETF depends on each
broker. There are also other associated costs; for example, all those funds
apply a management fee that ranges between 0.15 and 0.5 percent. This fee
is lower than commissions taken by traditional funds, which hover around
1.2 percent. Since this product is quoted on the stock markets, there is also
a brokerage commission to be taken into account.
ETFs are used to diversify a financial investment portfolio and at the
same time hedge against the risks of other instruments already present in
the portfolio. Currency ETFs are shares of a fund held by an ETF manage-
ment firm, which buys and holds currencies to sell later on to the public.
You can buy them in the same way you would buy stock shares. The value
of the shares of an ETF is usually 100 times the current rate established for
the currency that is being held. For example, if the current EUR/USD rate
is 1.3320, the Euro ETF will be priced at $133.20 (1.3320 (cid:3) 100 (cid:2)
$133.20).
Currency ETFs represent an opening to the FOREX market for
investors formerly focused on stocks and an additional level for diversifi-
cation of the portfolio; they also can be used effectively by shorter-term
traders for quick profits. Most of these ETFs even have corresponding
options available.
CONTRACTS FOR DIFFERENCE (CFDs)
CFDs are transactions performed on financial assets, stocks, and indices
where the liquidation is realized by means of the difference between the
buying price or ask and the selling price or bid without a real exchange and
possession of the asset that is being negotiated. The prices of CFDs stem
from the price of the underlying assets on the traditional stock or currency
market. This means that the CFDs provide access to the same liquidity that
is registered for the underlying asset.
CFDs are derivatives that allow investors to obtain the maximum
return on trading capital. Unlike what happens with physical stocks or
securities, the laws do not usually tax CFD contracts because the transac-
tion doesn’t involve a physical exchange of the document or underlying

250 FOREXTRADINGSECRETS
asset. Additionally, no administrative or custody costs are involved. CFDs
are negotiated on margin. This is a more effective way to use the capital
because only a small portion of it is blocked to guarantee the transaction.
However, the exposure is for 100 percent of the position. This can increase
the percentage of returns on capital.
The fact that all CFD transactions are always settled in cash is a much
easier method, and investors get all the benefits and risks of owning a secu-
rity without really owning it in its physical form.
COMMODITIES
Commoditiesare all those goods that constitute the essential raw materials
of an economy and worldwide and represent an additional alternative of
investment for various investors’profiles. Some of them are quite conve-
nient to acquire and add to a trader’s assets portfolio.
A commodity is any raw material that has gone through very little or
insignificant transformation. In international financial markets, commodi-
ties are classified into the following basic groups: metals (gold, silver,
copper), energy (oil, natural gas), food and supplies (sugar, cotton, cocoa,
coffee), grains (corn, wheat, chickpeas, beans), and livestock (pigs, cattle).
This definition allows us to find a relevant characteristic of these types
of goods. They are very homogeneous products, that is, very similar to each
other. Take, for example, a well-known commodity—gold. You all know
what gold is, what it is made of, and that its quality, if it is raw, should not
have much variation independent of its location. For this reason, its price
should not reflect any significant differences. This is so true that a single
price exists for commodities at an international level. For example, if you
see that today the price of gold is at $980 for 100 ounces, that would be the
price at which any buyer or seller would be transacting. Some small differ-
ences may stem from transactions costs, intermediaries, and transportation,
including insurance, but basically, the price would remain the same for
everyone.
The first question you should ask prior to including commodities in
your portfolio is if you think that a particular commodity is likely to rise
in price in the future. Maybe it would be a good idea to incorporate this
product into your trading portfolio because if you pay $5 today for a com-
modity and tomorrow its price is at $7.50, you will have made a 50 percent
return. This return is a capital gain. However, some commodities involve
heavy storage costs or even can be perishable, so it would be almost

CHAPTER14 SECRETSTOFOREX DIVERSIFICATION 251
impossible to add them to an investment portfolio. If you physically buy
cattle meat because you think that the price of this commodity will rise in
the future, you have to take into consideration that this product will require
refrigeration and special maintenance conditions so that it doesn’t deteri-
orate. This will be very costly, and the product could perish and become
totally stale if too much time has passed.
As an alternative, there are commodities that have less storage costs
and are not perishable. The first ranked are precious metals, such as gold
and silver. It is very common to observe these kinds of commodities in the
favorite investment portfolios of either big or small investors. When the
worldwide economy is expanding, that is, when it is expected that the real
wealth will tend to increase on average in the whole world economy, this
could be a good time to acquire commodities and hold them in a portfolio.
The more industrialized countries are the biggest buyers of raw materials or
commodities, which they use as supplies for the fabrication of products
with a greater added value. If the world is getting richer, it is because it
tends to demand a greater amount of elaborated products, and conse-
quently, there will be a greater demand for supplies for the elaboration
of those products. This logically causes the prices of commodities to rise,
and if you had some of them in your trading portfolio, you would realize
a capital gain.
Inversely, when the worldwide economy tends to slow down, the
demand for commodities decreases because the forecast is that there will
be a lesser demand for elaborated products. This would have as a conse-
quence a decrease in the prices of those raw materials. When this happens,
it is a good moment to sell.
The main commodities exchanges include the Chicago Board of Trade,
the Kansas City Board of Trade, the New York Mercantile Exchange, the
London Metal Exchange, and other foreign commodity exchanges.
INDICES (SECURITIES)
An index is an abstract number that represents the joint movement of sev-
eral financial assets of which it is composed: stocks, bonds, currencies,
commodities, and others. An index is a statistical measure of change.
Applied to the financial markets, it would represent an imaginary portfolio
of securities relative to a particular market or a portion of it.
Each one of the assets has a relative weight inside the index that is
measured based on previously set parameters from before the index was

252 FOREXTRADINGSECRETS
created. At the moment when there is a change in the price of the asset, the
index also will move, and its variation will be greater or lesser depending
on the relative weight of the asset that has changed.
The most well-known indices that you normally follow in the world-
wide market are the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE), the National Asso-
ciation of Securities Dealers Automated Quotations(NASDAQ), the Dow
Jones, the Standard and Poor’s 500, the Nikkei in Japan, the Financial
Times 100 (FTSE) in great Britain, the CAC 40 in France, and the Dax in
Germany, as well as assets such as bonds in the case of JP Morgan’s Emerg-
ing Markets Bond Index EMBI or the Commodity Research Bureau CRB
for commodities. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index is one of the world’s
best-known indices and is the most commonly used point of reference for
the stock market, along with the Dow Jones.
You have already seen that the Dow Jones shows the joint evolution of
30 of the most representative companies on the market. The weight is usu-
ally determined by the volume of transactions, and the company that has
performed with a higher volume during the last 6 months will have a
greater influence on the index.
If a stock from one company represents a 10 percent weight of the
index and another represents 20 percent, it is obvious that if each has expe-
rienced in a given month a 1 percent variation, this will not influence the
index in the same proportion. This also explains why the index could be ris-
ing in a given period while several of the companies that compose it could
see a decline in the value of their stocks.
An index is also used as a comparative measure for investments. For
example, if an investor buys a particular stock, he or she can compare its
performance with the index to see if it is going over or under the average.
One of the characteristics of the indices is that because they are a series
of grouped assets, they represent an important diversification, and thus the
risks are lowered. Usually an index reflects less volatility than the individ-
ual assets that compose it. You couldn’t technically invest in an index
because it represents the whole sum of the companies included, but indices
traded through mutual funds and exchange-traded funds (EFTs) that are
based on indexes allow people to invest in securities that represent ample
market segments or even the complete market.

15
C H A P T E R
MY FAVORITE WAYS
TO TRADE
BREAKOUTS
RANGE BREAKOUT
253

254 FOREXTRADINGSECRETS
The range breakout setup is quite easy to spot. The markets have been
trading in a sideways or consolidation pattern and usually in a tight range.
I usually check the setup in a short time frame, such as the 5-minute chart,
and if I see one in a higher time frame, such as, for example, the 1-hour
chart, it most often will have an inside bar being formed.
There are two times during the trading day that I use to plan a range
breakout: the Asian session or pre-Europe/pre-London range and the pre-
U.S. session range. In the first case, I will place a horizontal line at the high
of the range and another at the low of the range that has formed between
03:00 Greenwich Mean Time (GMT) and 07:00 GMT (the times on the
chart above are GMT (cid:5)2; this will depend on your own broker’s server
time). A few minutes before the time span ends, I place a straddle: two
pending stop orders, a buy stop 5 pips plus spread above the high of the
range and a sell stop at the low of the range. The stop loss of each position
is placed at the entry price of the opposite position; on EUR/USD pairs,
those ranges are usually 30 or 40 points on average. I place the stop loss at
breakeven plus 1 point as soon as the price has gone 20 pips in my direction
and delete the pending order that was not triggered. I keep on trailing the
stops using parabolic stop and reverse (SAR) as a reference.
In the second case, the range I use is the time span between 5 a.m.
Eastern Time (ET) and 8 a.m. ET, placing the straddle orders a few min-
utes before the U.S. market open. This strategy can be used any time a
tight consolidation range is being formed.
A variation of this strategy is splitting the position into three parts (this
would be three pending stop buy orders and three pending stop sell orders),
taking profit on one of the orders as soon as 20 points have been reached and
setting the stop loss to breakeven plus 1 point on the remaining two. Then I
take profits on the second position when it reaches 40 points, leaving the third
one with the above-mentioned trailing stops until it is finally stopped out.
Symmetric, ascending, and descending triangles also can be used for
this strategy because they are also consolidation periods. In the case of an
ascending or descending triangle, the breakout expectation usually will be
in the previous direction of the trend.
Ascending and descending triangles are formed of both a diagonal sup-
port or resistance and a horizontal support or resistance. The level to watch
for a directional breakout is the horizontal line. The ascending or descend-
ing triangle is a continuation pattern that usually will resume its direction
after the consolidation pause.
It is also important to check other levels that are present, such as pivots
and Fibonacci retracements, especially when deciding about the exact entry
price. It is preferable to set the entry a few points above or below such levels

CHAPTER15 MYFAVORITEWAYSTOTRADE 255
to prevent possible bounces off a pivot line. As a rule, I would recommend
trading only short positions if price is trading below the central pivot and only
long positions if price is trading above the central pivot. Traders always
should trade with the trend and never fight a trend.
A successful breakout also will depend on volumes. The higher the vol-
ume, the more significance the breakout will have. Volume depends on liq-
uidity, and liquidity depends on the day and the markets that are open; it is
also important to know when holidays occur and some of the markets are
closed because when there are few participants, markets are usually choppy,
lack a definite direction, and there is very little liquidity. The currency pairs
that are most active also will depend on which markets are currently open.
The most active sessions are those where the biggest markets are active:
London, the United States, and Japan. Usually the bigger liquidity shows in
early hours of the session and decreases along the rest of the trading day. If
you are trading the yen, the best session to employ is when Japanese markets
open (at 7 p.m. ET). The euro and pound will be most active later on, when
the Frankfurt and London markets start their activities. The London session
is the most active for all the currencies involved in the FOREX market
because it regroups the bigger volumes and liquidity. It is the most impor-
tant FOREX market, followed by the United States and Japan, with 10 per-
cent of the overall trading volume.
TREND BREAKOUT

256 FOREXTRADINGSECRETS
I employ this strategy whenever there is a clear break of a consolidated
trendline. I watch the price action, and as soon as the trendline has been
broken, I wait for the broken level to be retested with a definite bounce
back. When it is clear that the former support has become a resistance,
I then open a position. In the figure above, that would be a short position in
the next candle that follows the bounce from the retest. I place the stop loss
a few points above the broken line. In both examples shown, you can see
that the first one will yield fewer pips than the second one, but both trades
end in positive. Since they are countertrend trades, especially the first one,
which breaks the smaller trendline but is still contained in the greater lower
trendline, stops should be very tight and placed at breakeven plus 1 point as
soon as possible; in the first case, I exited the position when price action
bounced from the lower trendline.
SUPPORT/RESISTANCE BREAKOUT
This strategy is similar to the range breakout but at a higher level and on
higher time frames. Looking at daily and weekly time frames, I identify
strong areas of support and resistance and set a pending order, buy and sell
stop, a few points above and below the resistance and support levels.

CHAPTER15 MYFAVORITEWAYSTOTRADE 257
If the range is wide, instead of a stop loss, I place a contrarian stop
order that will be triggered if, instead of breaking out, the price action
bounces back inside the range. The contrarian stop order is set after the first
breakout order has been triggered, or if you have access on your platform to
“If done” orders, it can be programmed to be placed at the moment the first
order is effectively in the market.
PROGRESSIVE TIME-FRAME BREAKOUT

258 FOREXTRADINGSECRETS
In the first figure, you can appreciate the weekly trendline, and a steeper
daily trendline that has formed. After such a strong up move, prices most
probably will turn back for a correction.
The parameters to use are the same as for a trend breakout: waiting for
the price action to effectively break, retest, and bounce from the trendline
with support or resistance changed into its opposite.
The difference here is that the higher-time-frame trendline will give
you the possible target at which you can take profits. In the present exam-
ple, I used weekly and daily charts, but this strategy can be implemented in
any sequence of time frames: daily and 4 hours, 4 hours and 1 hour, 1 hour
and 30 minutes, and even much smaller charts, always taking the higher
time frame of both and its trendline as reference for the profit target.
CHANNELING
Using price channels as a reference for swing trading is similar to trading
inside a range bound or sideways price action: You sell when prices are at
the high of the range and buy when prices are at the low of the range. The
only difference will be that, unlike the sideways market where the high
and low levels are mostly the same throughout the whole range, you will
have higher highs and lows in an uptrend and lower highs and lows in a
downtrend.

CHAPTER15 MYFAVORITEWAYSTOTRADE 259
Depending on the time frame and style of trading, including risk man-
agement, that you decide to use, you can trade both sides of the swing or
only the directional side, that is, buying longs, or “buying on dips,” in an
uptrend and selling shorts, or “selling rallies,” in a down trend. If you trade
both sides, stop losses should be much tighter on countertrend positions.
ANDREW’S PITCHFORK

260 FOREXTRADINGSECRETS
Andrew’s pitchfork is a very useful tool that I employ to draw equidistant
channels with a median line. It is constructed as follows: The first point is
a previous high or low on the chart. This point is called the pivot. I then
look for both a high and a low to the right of this first pivot point (points 2
and 3 on the chart above). The pitchfork indicator exists on almost all chart-
ing software, but you also can build it up by drawing parallel lines from all
three points mentioned, in which the center or median line will be repre-
sented by the first pivot point. The other two lines serve as support and
resistance of the price action.
This channel indicator allows you to predict the target levels of a swing
entry inside the channel. When price touches and bounces from either sup-
port or resistance, the median line is the most probable target, and the
opposite trendline would be the second probable target.
FIBONACCI CHANNELS
Fibonacci channels can be used alone or in conjunction with horizontal
Fibonacci retracement and extension levels to identify probable areas that
price can reach and thus set up the sequential targets for your trades or
wait for the price action to reach one of those levels and fade the move by
trading the bounce back.

CHAPTER15 MYFAVORITEWAYSTOTRADE 261
HEDGING
TRUE HEDGING
Ahedgeis an attempt to profit from the arbitrage of two or more correlated
currency pairs. Hedging has been erroneously related to opening a long and
short position on the same currency pair, but this leads nowhere because it
would end up as a neutral or zero-value position, and in addition, you
would lose the price of the respective spreads on top.
A true hedge is realized by using different currency pairs, usually in the
direction where the swap or overnight interest rate is positive for all or
almost all the currency pairs involved. The total amount earned on
overnight also will depend on each broker’s swap rates, but they are mostly
in the same range for a vast majority of firms.
Although negative correlation implies that when one pair is going up,
the other one is going down—thus if you are long on both, one of them will
end up as a losing position—there is always an arbitrage and difference in
the number of points that the price has increased in the profitable position
in relation to the points lost in the losing position.
PAIRS CORRELATIONS
A perfect hedge would imply a 100 percent inverse correlation between
opposite pairs involved. However, this is not possible, although there are
complementary currency pairs, such as EUR/USD and USD/CHF, that
have a very high correlation index, nearing 96 percent most of the time.
BASKET OF CURRENCIES
This is a hedge that attempts to obtain a positive carry interest in the over-
all positions, which are closed at a certain point when the total balance of
points is positive. You can use as many currency pairs as you want, but the
hedge usually performs much better with only the four majors: EUR/USD,
GBP/USD, USD/CHF, and USD/JPY.
Open a long position on all four currency pairs in the following pro-
portion (stated here in lots):
1 lot EUR/USD
1 lot GBP/USD
1.2 lots USD/CHF
0.9 lot USD/JPY
The proportion is relative to the difference in the pip values of the currency
pairs: $1 for EUR/USD and GBP/USD, $0.85 approximately for USD/CHF,

262 FOREXTRADINGSECRETS
and $1.08 approximately for USD/JPY (the pip value for pairs with USD as
the quote currency do not vary, whereas there is a slight difference when
USD is the base currency).
This is a medium- to long-term strategy. At a certain point, the overall
basket of currencies will be showing a positive increase in equity, in addition
to the swap interest accumulated throughout several days. All positions are
closed at this time, and a new hedge is set up using the same parameters.
BASIC OSCILLATOR-BASED STRATEGY
For this system, I use a break of the 50-period exponential moving average
(50 EMA) with early signal and confirmation given from relative strength
index (RSI) and moving average convergence-divergence (MACD) indica-
tors. I plot a 50-period EMA on the chart, plus an RSI indicator with stan-
dard settings (RSI 14) and a MACD indicator also with standard settings
(12, 26, and 9).
As you can see in the chart above, several early signals will alert you to
the possible change in direction: You first have the RSI crossing above the
overbought level, indicating that the current direction might be coming to

CHAPTER15 MYFAVORITEWAYSTOTRADE 263
an end; then you have a few candles indicating market indecision or
exhaustion and a descent on the slope of the MACD. The price crosses
down through the 50 EMA, and both the MACD and the signal MACD
have crossed the zero line. I enter a short position on the next candle fol-
lowing the one that has closed below the 50 EMA.
All the elements have to be in alignment and coincide in the predicted
direction to allow the decision on the entry to be made. If any of those ele-
ments is not present, I do not take the trade; rather, I wait for a much clearer
opportunity.
This strategy is quite simple and can be used in any time frame. I per-
sonally use it intraday but on longer time frames, such as the 4-hour chart.
BASIC MOVING-AVERAGE CROSSES
The 5/13 EMA cross is a very simple strategy that can be used for scalping
in smaller time frames, such as 1 or 5 minutes. I just plot a 5-period and a
13-period EMA on a chart and wait for a cross of both to happen. When the
5 EMA crosses upward above the 13 EMA, I open a long position at the
open of the next candle; when the 5 EMA crosses downward below the 13
EMA, I open a short position at the open of the next candle. This is a very
short-term strategy that has to be tightly monitored because changes on
those small time frames occur very fast.

264 FOREXTRADINGSECRETS
TRADING GAPS
Agapis a measurable difference in prices between the close of the preced-
ing trading day and the open of the current day. Small gaps of a few points
can occur throughout the week, but significant gaps usually are seen on
Monday open after the weekend pause. As you can see in the figure picture,
the price closed at 1.2861 and opened at 1.2792, 69 points lower, on the
next trading session.
About 80 percent of gaps get filled during the day or at most during the
trading week. This can give you a quite predictable pattern to place a trade
in the opposite direction of the gap opening: If prices gap down, you buy;
if prices gap up, you sell. Of course, it is not as simple as seeing the gap and
jumping directly into a position. All the usual other factors have to be taken
in consideration: pivots, patterns, and possible reversal signals. The first
directional impulse of the gap tends to continue for a while, and sometimes
prices can move a fair number of pips before turning back to fill the gap.
I personally wait for prices to settle down and start a consolidation pattern
or a clear reversal signal in candlesticks; then I open the corresponding
position. In the case shown in the figure above, you can see a series of
reversal candles and the start of a bullish impulse, which gives me the sig-
nal that the market can indeed start moving back to fill the gap. Only then
will I open a long position. The stop loss would be set a few points below
the lowest low of the recent down move, preferably also below a strong
pivot line or established support.

CHAPTER15 MYFAVORITEWAYSTOTRADE 265
DAILY HIGH-LOW
This is a quite simple and almost “set and forget” type of medium- to long-
term trading strategy. It also uses a basket of currencies, which can range
from four to six optimally.
I personally use six of the majors—EUR/USD, GBP/USD, USD/JPY,
USD/CHF, EUR/JPY, and AUD/USD—but you can choose any combina-
tion of pairs that suit you and more especially that have tested well in pre-
liminary assessment conditions. The risk per pair shouldn’t be higher than
2 percent of your equity balance for a total risk of between 8 percent of
your account for four pairs and 12 percent for six pairs.
You will only need a few minutes daily before and during the New York
close (5 p.m. ETor GMT 22:00) to monitor and adjust your trades. Here is
a more detailed description of the overall steps: Open positions daily at
5 p.m. ET (just after the New York close). Use the weekly high/low and the
daily high/low as references for the initial stop loss. Some pairs will require

266 FOREXTRADINGSECRETS
wider stops, but as an average, you could consider around 100 pips for a
moderate stop. This means that your position size has to be defined accord-
ingly. I personally use a fixed-percentage amount of the balance that repre-
sents a maximum risk of 2 percent per each pair based on a 100-pip stop
loss, which lowers the risk on pairs that will need much smaller stop levels.
Preparation of the trade and definition of the entry price:Draw a line
at the low and the high of the previous week and at the low and high of the
trading day that has just closed. Calculate the median line by adding both
high and low and dividing by 2. If the price is below the weekly anddaily
median lines, be on the lookout for a long position; if the price is above
weekly and daily median lines, check if overall conditions can indicate a
short position. The entry will be mostly discretionary, but you usually can
assume that after a pronounced rise or decline there will be more chances
for a reversal or at least a good correction, so when prices are near the lows,
you should look for long opportunities, and the inverse applies when they
are nearing the highs: You would try to assess whether a short position has
a good possibility of success.

CHAPTER15 MYFAVORITEWAYSTOTRADE 267
However, this is not a fixed, blind rule: You should check the overall
trend from weekly to H4 down, and if there is a strong trend in develop-
ment, you should stick with the overall trend. I place the market orders
as soon as the new trading day begins, based in my trading plan and
because this should be an ideal trading system for traders who do not have
much time to sit and monitor the charts. However, depending on the posi-
tions of the prices with regard to the weekly and daily lows and highs and
eventuality of pullbacks or corrections inside a given trend, a more pre-
cisely priced limit order could be set, allowing stops to be much tighter.
In general, though, an average 100 pips distance is mostly what you will
encounter.
Stop-loss price: the high of the previous day plus 10 pips for a short
position; the low of the previous day minus 10 pips for a long position.
Should the weekly high or low be very near the daily extremes, stops would
have to be set at plus or minus 10 pips from those prices.
The trades usually can last for a week or more if a good trend is going
on. This strategy, however, is not suited to sideways markets. It is definitely
a trend-following system. The risk-reward ratio, if the system is followed to
the letter with discipline and letting the market close your positions by
itself instead of exiting earlier than needed, is higher than 1:3 or even than
1:4. The percentage of winning positions might be lower than 50 percent,
though, but the winners could ride up to 600 or 700 points; meanwhile, the
losing positions will not be more than 100 or 120 pips each.
Exit prices and daily adjustments: Every day at the same exact time,
you check your positions and adjust the stop losses to the preceding daily
high or low accordingly. If any of the pairs has been stopped out, reentry on
that pair is done only and exclusively at 5 p.m. ET based on the preceding
entry criteria. You keep on adjusting the stops every day as the market
keeps moving in your direction, and the positions will be closed only and
exclusivelywhen they are finally stopped out by the market.
An addition to this system would be to include a new position in the
same direction as the trend under the same rules as soon as the stop of the
previous one is in the positive zone so that you can maintain the same risk-
reward ratio and benefit from one or more free trades as the trend evolves.
This would be considered position trading longer term. For example, when
your previous position for the USD/JPY pair has its stops set at (cid:5)20 at the
moment of the daily adjustment, and only after determining the good prob-
ability of continuation of the current trend, you open a new position of
USD/JPY, setting the corresponding stop loss at a 10-pip distance from the
preceding day’s high or low.

268 FOREXTRADINGSECRETS
The figures above present an example with short and long entry lev-
els on EUR/USD and USD/JPY. This is a quite simple and stress-free
strategy that can yield handsome profits over time if you employ patience
and discipline.

CONCLUSION
An Endless Quest for the Holy Grail
I have been teaching and trading the FOREX market for nine years. It has
really been available to retail traders such as ourselves for only about
11 years. In addition, I have been a stock broker for more than 16 years. The
one thing I always like to point out when I am talking to my many students
is that there is no “Holy Grail” of trading. I often run into traders who think
that they can buy FOREX trading software and use it like an ATM
machine—just put in a pin number, and out pops the cash. It just doesn’t
work that way.
This is a real market. It is the largest financial market in the world, and
you have to treat it as such. You can trade this market part time, or you can
do it every day. In fact, you can make it your business—the business of
trading.
The real “Holy Grail,” if any, is inside—your brain, in conjunction with
your psychological awareness and control and the cumulative experience
and knowledge you have acquired and the alignment of your goals and your
actions in harmony and perfection through a good amount of practice, then
again practice, and then again more practice until knowledge transforms
into intuitive wisdom.
Trading can be learned, of course, but the experience can’t be transmit-
ted. It has to be constructed by every individual through a personal effort of
understanding and hard work. It will not happen overnight. Trading needs a
269

270 CONCLUSION
similar dedication as any precision-driven career. Theory is good, but prac-
tice makes perfect and integrates all the knowledge you have acquired.
Another thing that is important to understand is that you will never,
ever stop learning. Markets are changing every day, and the FOREX is a
living organism that evolves in the same way as all its traders. Always
remember that although it seems to be an anonymous entity, at the end of
the day, the market is merely made up of investors, large and small, from all
corners of the world, each with his or her own emotions, psychology, and
predictable behaviors and reactions.
As I asked earlier, how long does a doctor, lawyer, engineer, or any
other regulated professional have to go to school to learn his or her trade?
Some of these individuals literally could be in school for 10 years just
learning to be good at what they do, and that doesn’t include any practical
experience. Wow! That’s a long time; to be a FOREX trader is no different.
Okay, you don’t have to go to school for 10 years, but you do have to put in
your “seat time” on the computer.
You will only get out of this what you put into it. You will definitely
have to invest in your education; you will have to seek out knowledge and
someone who can help you learn to trade this market. I hope that after read-
ing this book, you will easily decide that I am the person from whom you
want to learn more.
You can go to www.JamesDicks.com to join my FOREX network for
free, and you can access the many chat rooms and forums to learn from my
other traders just like you, people who want to trade this amazing market
and learn how to do it successfully.
The eagerness to learn at least one new thing every day is paramount.
I keep having “Ah-ha” moments after all these years, and I hope they
won’t stop happening. But these consciousness-expanding experiences
can’t be transmitted either. Some of them will be considered common
sense and obvious by many, whereas others will fail to grasp the true
meaning. Finally, a few will have their own “Ah-ha” awareness through
understanding of a particular situation.
Always remember that the essence of the market is the price, always the
price, and only the price. Price action is the core of it all, and everything else
revolves around it. The path is in the price. The market is always showing
you where it will or will not go. You have to stop for a while and start listen-
ing to what the market is telling you. Most often the obvious things are the
ones that are overlooked. The easiest path seems unbelievable, so we tend to
complicate everything. Go back to the basics. Go back to the simple things.

CONCLUSION 271
In the FOREX and in life as well, this will be very useful to you. Keep it
simple and straight (KISS)!
Learn to move on after losses. Don’t dwell on missed trades or missed
pips after you decide to close. There will be hundreds of opportunities in
the future. Follow your plan, and follow your system. Practice every day,
and experience will come with time, patience, and discipline. Don’t look
outside for what’s already inside. Leave your ego behind; be humble and
smart. You can’t decide where the market will go, so learn to see where it
wants to lead you, not the other way around. Exit bad trades, and hold onto
good trades. Set yourself a goal, and stop trading when you have reached it.
Be realistic about your annual percentage growth. Do not force yourself
into overproduction. Don’t open the doors to greed. Each FOREX trade is
a new one with new conditions and perspectives. Do not dwell in the past.
Choose the currency pairs that have proven to be profitable. Leave behind
those you can’t understand.
Finally, take a deep look inside yourself: There it is indeed—your own
and personal “Holy Grail.” The rest is history yet to be written, assuredly
the history of your own path to the greatest of successes!
Keep checking www.JamesDicks.com for important FOREX informa-
tion. We have FOREX conferences, and I personally hope to meet you soon.
Happy investing!

This page intentionally left blank

A P P E N D I X
38 STEPS TO BECOMING
A TRADER
BY ANONYMOUS TRADER
[As published in Commodity Futures Trading Club News and in Traders
Organization’s “Real Success Day Trading Course”]
1. We accumulate information—buying books, going to seminars, and
researching.
2. We begin to trade with our “new” knowledge.
3. We consistently “donate” and then realize that we may need more
knowledge or information.
4. We accumulate more information.
5. We switch the commodities we are currently following.
6. We go back into the market and trade with our “updated” knowledge.
7. We get “beat up” again and begin to lose some of our confidence.
Fear starts setting in.
8. We start to listen to “outside news” and to other traders.
9. We go back into the market and continue to “donate.”
10. We switch commodities again.
11. We search for more information.
12. We go back into the market and start to see a little progress.
273

274 APPENDIX
13. We get “overconfident,” and the market humbles us.
14. We start to understand that trading successfully is going to take more
time and more knowledge than we anticipated.
Most people will give up at this point, as they realize work is involved.
15. We get serious and start concentrating on learning a “real”
methodology.
16. We trade our methodology with some success but realize that
something is missing.
17. We begin to understand the need for having rules to apply our
methodology.
18. We take a sabbatical from trading to develop and research our trading
rules.
19. We start trading again, this time with rules, and find some success,
but overall, we still hesitate when we execute.
20. We add, subtract, and modify rules as we see a need to be more
proficient with our rules.
21. We feel we are very close to crossing that threshold of successful
trading.
22. We start to take responsibility for our trading results as we understand
that our success is in us, not the methodology.
23. We continue to trade and become more proficient with our
methodology and our rules.
24. As we trade, we still have a tendency to violate our rules, and our
results are still erratic.
25. We know we are close.
26. We go back and research our rules.
27. We build the confidence in our rules and go back into the market and
trade.
28. Our trading results are getting better, but we are still hesitating in
executing our rules.
29. We now see the importance of following our rules as we see the
results of our trades when we don’t follow the rules.
30. We begin to see that our lack of success is within us (a lack of
discipline in following the rules because of some kind of fear),
and we begin to work on knowing ourselves better.
31. We continue to trade, and the market teaches us more and more about
ourselves.
32. We master our methodology and our trading rules.

APPENDIX 275
33. We begin to consistently make money.
34. We get a little overconfident, and the market humbles us.
35. We continue to learn our lessons.
36. We stop thinking and allow our rules to trade for us (trading becomes
boring but successful), and our trading account continues to grow as
we increase our contract size.
37. We are making more money than we ever dreamed possible.
38. We go on with our lives and accomplish many of the goals we had
always dreamed of.
DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE (DJIA)
COMPANIES INCLUDED IN THE DJIA
Company Symbol
3M MMM
Alcoa AA
American Express AXP
AT&T T
Bank of America BAC
Boeing BA
Caterpillar CAT
Chevron Corporation CVX
Cisco Systems CSCO
Coca-Cola KO
DuPont DD
ExxonMobil XOM
General Electric GE
Hewlett-Packard HPQ
Home Depot HD
Intel INTC
IBM IBM
Johnson & Johnson JNJ
JPMorgan Chase JPM
Kraft Foods KFT
McDonald’s MCD
Merck MRK
Microsoft MSFT
Pfizer PFE
Procter & Gamble PG
Travelers TRV
United Technologies Corporation UTX
Verizon Communications VZ
Walmart WMT
Walt Disney DIS

276 APPENDIX
CANDLESTICK PATTERNS
BULLISH REVERSAL PATTERNS
High Reliability
Bullish Piercing Line Bullish Kicking
Bullish Abandoned Baby Bullish Morning Doji Star
Bullish Morning Star Bullish Three Inside Up
Bullish Three Outside Up

APPENDIX 277
Bullish Three White Soldiers
Bullish Concealing Baby Swallow
Medium Reliability
Bullish Dragonfly Doji Bullish Long Legged Doji
Bullish Engulfing Bullish Gravestone Doji

278 APPENDIX
Bullish Doji Star Bullish Harami Cross
Bullish Homing Pigeon Bullish Matching Low
Bullish Meeting Lines Bullish Stick Sandwich
Bullish Three Stars in the South Bullish Tri Star

APPENDIX 279
Bullish Three River Bullish Breakway
Bullish Ladder Bottom
Low Reliability
Bullish Belt Hold Bullish Hammer
Bullish Inverted Hammer Bullish Harami

280 APPENDIX
BULLISH CONTINUATION PATTERNS
High Reliability
Bullish Side-by-Side White Lines Bullish Mat Hold
Bullish Rising Three Methods
Medium Reliability
Bullish Upside Gap Three Methods Bullish Upside Tasuki Gap
Low Reliability
Bullish Separating Lines Bullish Three Line Strike

APPENDIX 281
BULLISH REVERSAL/CONTINUATION PATTERNS
Low Reliability
Bullish Long White Candlestick Bullish White Marubozu
Bullish White Closing Marubozu Bullish White Opening Marubozu
BEARISH REVERSAL PATTERNS
High Reliability
Bearish Dark Cloud Cover Bearish Kicking

282 APPENDIX
Bearish Abandoned Baby Bearish Evening Star
Bearish Evening Doji Star Bearish Three Black Crows
Bearish Three Inside Down Bearish Three Outside Down
Bearish Upside Gap Two Crows

APPENDIX 283
Medium Reliability
Bearish Dragonfly Doji Bearish Long-Legged Doji
Bearish Engulfing Bearish Gravestone Doji
Bearish Doji Star Bearish Harami Cross
Bearish Meeting Lines Bearish Advance Block

284 APPENDIX
Bearish Deliberation Bearish Tri Star
Bearish Two Crows Bearish Breakaway
Low Reliability
Bearish Belt Hold Bearish Hanging Man
Bearish Shooting Star Bearish Harami

APPENDIX 285
BEARISH CONTINUATION PATTERNS
High Reliability
Bearish Falling Three Methods
Medium Reliability
Bearish in Neck Bearish on Neck
Bearish Downside Bearish Downside Tasuki Gap
Gap Three Methods
Bearish Side-By-Side White Lines

286 APPENDIX
Low Reliability
Bearish Separating Lines Bearish Thrusting
Bearish Three Line Strike
BEARISH REVERSAL/CONTINUATION PATTERNS
Low Reliability
Bearish Long Black Candlestick Bearish Black Marubozu
Bearish Black Closing Marubozu Bearish Black Opening Marubozu

APPENDIX 287
NEUTRAL REVERSAL PATTERNS
Medium Reliability
Neutral High Wave Neutral Long Legged Doji
Neutral Umbrella Neutral Inverted Umbrella
NEUTRAL REVERSAL/CONTINUATION PATTERNS
Low Reliability
Neutral Doji Neutral Four Price Doji
Neutral White Spining Top Neutral Black Spinning Top

288 APPENDIX
Neutral Short White Candlestick Neutral Short Black Candlestick
Neutral White Candlestick Neutral Black Candelestick

GLOSSARY
Ask(ask price,ask rate) The price at which a currency pair or security
is offered for sale; the quoted price at which an investor can buy a currency
pair. This is also known as the offer, ask price,andask rate.
Appreciation
An increase in value of an asset.
Arbitrage Profiting from differences in the price of a single currency
pair that is traded on more than one market.
Asset An item having commercial or exchange value.
Bank rate The percentage rate at which the central bank of a country
lends money to the country’s commercial banks.
Base currency In FOREX trading, currencies are quoted in terms of a
currency pair. The first currency in the pair is the base currency. The base
currency is the currency against which exchange rates generally are quoted
in a given country. Examples: In USD/JPY, the U.S. dollar is the base cur-
rency; in EUR/USD, the euro is the base currency.
Bear market An extended period of general price decline in an individual
security, an asset, or a market.
Bid The price at which an investor can place an order to buy a currency
pair; the quoted price where an investor can sell a currency pair. This is also
known as the bid priceandbid rate.
Bid/ask spread The point difference between the bid and offer (ask) price.
289

290 GLOSSARY
Bretton Woods The site of a conference that in 1944 led to the establish-
ment of the postwar foreign exchange system that remained intact until the
early 1970s. The conference resulted in formation of the International
Monetary Fund. The system fixed currencies in a fixed exchange-rate sys-
tem with 1 percent fluctuations of the currency to gold or the dollar.
Broker An agent who executes orders to buy and sell currencies and
related instruments either for a commission or on a spread. Brokers are
agents working on commission and not principals or agents acting on their
own account. In the FOREX market, brokers tend to act as intermediaries
between banks, bringing buyers and sellers together for a commission paid
by the initiator or by both parties. There are four or five major global brokers
operating through subsidiaries, affiliates, and partners in many countries.
Bull market A market that is on a consistent upward trend.
Buy limit order An order to execute a transaction at a specified price
(the limit) or lower.
Broker One of the market participants that acts as an intermediary
between retail traders and larger commercial institutions.
Buy on margin The process of buying a currency pair where a client pays
cash for part of the overall value of the position. The word marginrefers to
the portion the investor puts up rather than the portion that is borrowed.
Cable FOREX traders’slang word that describes the British pound/U.S.
dollar exchange rate (GBP/USD).
Candlestick chart A chart that displays the daily trading price range
(open, high, low, and close). A form of Japanese charting that has become
popular in the West. A narrow line (shadow) shows the day’s price range. A
wider body marks the area between the open and the close. If the close is
above the open, the body is white (not filled); if the close is below the open,
the body is black (filled).
Carry (interest-rate carry) The income or cost associated with keeping
a foreign exchange position overnight. This is derived when the currency
pairs in the position have different interest rates for the same period of time.
Carry trade In the FOREX, holding a position with a positive overnight
interest return in hope of gaining profits without closing the position just
for the central bank’s interest-rate difference.
Central bank A bank, administered by a national government, that reg-
ulates the behavior of financial institutions within its borders and carries
out monetary policy.

GLOSSARY 291
CFD A contract for difference, a special trading instrument that allows
financial speculation on stocks, commodities, and other instruments with-
out actually buying.
Chartist A person who attempts to predict prices by analyzing past price
movements as recorded on a chart.
Closing a position The process of selling or buying a foreign exchange
position resulting in the liquidation (squaring up) of the position.
Closing market rate The rate at which a position can be closed based on
the market price at end of the day.
Commission The fee that a broker may charge clients for dealing on their
behalf.
Confirmation Written acknowledgment of a trade, listing important
details such as the date, the size of the transaction, the price, the commis-
sion, and the amount of money involved.
Correspondent bank The foreign bank’s representative who regularly
performs services for a bank that has no branch in the relevant center, for
example, to facilitate the transfer of funds. In the United States, this often
occurs domestically owing to interstate banking restrictions.
Counterpart A participant in a financial transaction.
Cover (1) To take out a forward foreign exchange contract. (2) To close
out a short position by buying currency or securities that have been sold.
CPI Consumer price index, which is the statistical measure of inflation
based on changes in prices of a specified set of goods.
Cross-rate The exchange rate between two currencies where neither of
the currencies is USD.
Currency Money issued by a government. Coins and paper money. It is
a form of money used as a unit of exchange within a country.
Currency pair The two currencies in a foreign exchange transaction.
EUR/USD is an example of a currency pair.
Day order A buy or sell order that will expire automatically at the end of
the trading day on which it is entered.
Day trade A trade opened and closed on the same trading day.
Day trader A trader who buys and sells on the basis of small short-term
price movements.
Day trading Refers to a style or type of trading where trade positions are
opened and closed during the same day.

292 GLOSSARY
Dealer An individual or firm that buys and sells assets from its portfolio,
acting as a principal or counterpart to a transaction.
Depreciation A fall in the value of a currency owing to market forces.
Desk Term referring to a group dealing with a specific currency or
currencies.
Devaluation The act by a government to reduce the external value of its
currency.
Discretionary account An account in which a customer permits a trading
institution to act on the customer’s behalf in buying and selling currency
pairs. The institution has discretion as to the choice of currency pairs, prices,
and timing, subject to any limitations specified in the agreement.
Expert advisor (EA) An automated script that is used by the trading
platform software to manage positions and orders automatically without
(or with little) manual control.
ECB (SeeEuropean central bank.)
ECN broker A type of FOREX brokerage firm that provides its clients
direct access to other FOREX market participants. ECN brokers don’t dis-
courage scalping, don’t trade against the client, don’t charge spread (low
spread is defined by current market prices), but charge commissions for
every order.
Economic release (economic news release) A scheduled announcement
related to a particular fundamental indicator that includes the data of the
previous release and the forecast value. At the moment of the release, revi-
sions can be made to the previous release values, and these also count on
the actual release.
Euro The single currency of the European Economic and Monetary
Union (EMU), introduced in January 1999. This is the amalgamation of the
following currencies (after January 1, 2002, these currencies have been con-
sidered legacy currencies): German Deutsche marks, Italian lira, Austrian
schilling, French franc, Belgium franc, Netherlands (Dutch) guilders, Finish
markka, Portugese escudo, Greek drachma, Irish punt, Luxembourg franc,
and Spanish peseta.
European central bank (ECB) The central bank for the new European
Monetary Union. The main regulatory body of the European Union finan-
cial system.
Execution The process of completing an order or deal.

GLOSSARY 293
Fast market Rapid movement in a market caused by strong interest by
buyers and/or sellers. In such circumstances, price levels may be omitted,
and bid and offer quotations may occur too rapidly to be fully reported.
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) The regulatory agency
responsible for administering bank depository insurance in the United States.
Federal Reserve (Fed) The central bank of the United States. The main
regulatory body of the United States of America financial system, a divi-
sion of which, the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC), regulates,
among other things, federal interest rates.
Federal Reserve System The central banking system in the United States.
Fibonacci retracements The levels with a high probability of trend break
or bounce; calculated as 23.6, 32.8, 50, and 61.8 percent of the trend range.
Fill The process of completing a customer’s order to buy or sell a cur-
rency pair.
Fill price The price at which a buy or sell order is executed.
Financial risk The risk that a firm will be unable to meet its financial
obligations.
Flat (square) Term describing a trading book with no market exposure.
A neutral state that occurs when all your positions are closed
FOMC Federal Open Market Committee, the committee that sets money
supply targets in the United States, which tend to be implemented through
Fed fund interest rates, etc.
Foreign exchange The purchase or sale of a currency against sale or
purchase of another.
FOREX Term commonly used when referring to the foreign exchange
market.
FOREX club Groups formed in the major financial centers to encourage
educational and social contacts between foreign exchange dealers under
the umbrella of Association Cambiste International.
Forward A transaction that settles on a future date.
Fundamental analysis Analysis of economic and political information
with the objective of determining future movements in a financial market.
FX Foreign exchange.
Good-til-canceled (GTC) order A buy or sell order that remains open
until it is filled or canceled.

294 GLOSSARY
Hedge A transaction that reduces the risk on an existing investment
position.
Initial margin The deposit a customer needs to make before being allo-
cated a trading limit.
Initial margin requirement The minimum portion of a new security
purchase that an investor must pay for in cash.
Kiwi A FOREX slang name for the New Zealand currency, the New
Zealand dollar.
Limit order An order to execute a transaction at a specified price (the
limit) or better. A limit order to buy would be at the limit or lower, and a
limit order to sell would be at the limit or higher.
Liquidity Refers to the relationship between transaction size and price
movement. For example, a market is “liquid” if large transactions can occur
with only minimal price changes.
Long position (or long) In foreign exchange, when a currency pair is
bought, it is understood that the primary currency in the pair is “long,” and
the secondary currency is “short.”
Lot The standard size of an order or trading position. One lot is equal to
US$100,000 on currency pairs where the U.S. dollar is the base currency
and its equivalent in dollars where the base currency is from another coun-
try. The amount is usually expressed in multiples of 100.
Maintenance A set minimum margin that a customer must maintain in
his or her margin account.
Margin The amount of money needed to maintain a position.
Margin account An account that allows leverage buying on credit and
borrowing on currencies already in the account. Buying on credit and bor-
rowing are subject to standards established by the firm carrying the
account. Interest is charged on any borrowed funds and only for the period
of time that the loan is outstanding.
Margin call A call for additional funds in a margin account either
because the value of equity in the account has fallen below a required min-
imum (also termed a maintenance call) or because additional currencies
have been purchased (or sold short).
Market close This refers to the time of day that a market closes. In the 24
hour-a-day FOREX market, there is no official market close. 5:00 p.m.
Eastern Time is often referred to and understood as the market close

GLOSSARY 295
because value dates for spot transactions change to the next new value date
at that time.
Market maker A person or firm that provides liquidity, making two-
sided prices (bids and offers) in the market.
Market order A customer order for immediate execution at the best
price available when the order reaches the marketplace.
Market rate The current quote of a currency pair.
Maturity The date on which payment of a financial obligation is due.
Momentum The tendency of a currency pair to continue movement in a
single direction.
OCO order One cancels the other order. A combination of two orders in
which the execution of either one automatically cancels the other.
Offer The price at which a currency pair or security is for sale; the
quoted price at which an investor can buy a currency pair. This is also
known as the ask, ask price,andask rate.
Open order Buy or sell order that remains in force until executed or can-
celed by the customer.
Open position Any position (long or short) that is subject to market fluc-
tuations and has not been closed out by a corresponding opposite transaction.
Order A customer’s instructions to buy or sell currencies at a certain rate.
Overbought (SeeOverbought/Oversold Indicator.)
Overbought/Oversold indicator A technical analysis tool that attempts
to define when prices have moved too far and fast in either direction. This
is usually calculated based on a moving average of the difference between
the number of advancing and declining issues over a certain period of time.
If the market is considered overbought, the technical analyst will sell, and
if the market is considered oversold, he or she will buy.
Overnight position Trader’s long or short position in a currency at the
end of a trading day.
Oversold (SeeOverbought/Oversold Indicator.)
Pip The smallest increment of change in a foreign currency price, either
up or down. The last digit in the rate (e.g., for EUR/USD, 1 point (cid:2)0.0001).
Pipette Fractional pip, 1/10 of a point. Additional decimal point quoted
by some FOREX brokers, which provide a greater accuracy as to price
movements. Examples: 1.27503 for EUR/USD or 110.052 for USD/JPY.

296 GLOSSARY
Pivot point The primary support or resistance point that is calculated
based on the previous period high, low, and close prices. It is usually cal-
culated on daily rates, but other time frames also can be used.
Point (SeePip.)
Price The price at which an underlying currency can be bought or sold.
Price transparency The ability of all market participants to “see” or deal
at the same price.
Principal value The original amount invested by a client.
Profit Gain. Positive amount of money gained from closing a position.
Quote A simultaneous bid and offer in a currency pair.
Quote currency The second currency mentioned in a pair. The quote
currency is the one that determines the exchange rate. Examples: In
USD/JPY, the Japanese yen is the quote currency; in EUR/USD, the U.S.
dollar is the quote currency.
Rate Price at which a currency can be bought or sold against another
currency.
Realized profit/loss Gain or loss from already closed positions.
Resistance Price level at which technical analysts note persistent selling
of a currency. Price level for which the intensive selling can lead to the
price increasing (uptrend).
Revaluation Daily calculation of potential profits or losses on open posi-
tions based on the difference between the settlement price of the preceding
trading day and the current trading day.
Risk (foreign exchange risk) The risk that the exchange rate on a
foreign currency will move against the position held by an investor such
that the value of the investment is reduced.
Risk management The employment of financial analysis and use of
trading techniques to reduce and/or control exposure to financial risk.
Roll-over The process of extending the settlement value date on an open
position forward to the next valid value date.
Scalper A trader who trades for small, short-term profits during the
course of a trading session, rarely carrying a position overnight.
Scalping The trading technique used by scalpers, taking small, short-term
profits during the course of a trading session.
Sell limit order An order to execute a transaction only at a specified
price (the limit) or higher.

GLOSSARY 297
Selling short A situation where a currency has been sold with the intent
of buying back the position at a lower price to make a profit.
Settled (closed) position Closed positions for which all needed transac-
tions have been made.
Settlement The actual delivery of currencies made on the maturity date
of a trade.
Short position (or short) In foreign exchange, when a currency pair is
sold, the position is said to be short. It is understood that the primary currency
in the pair is “short,” and the secondary currency is “long.”
Short squeeze The pressure on short sellers to cover their positions as a
result of sharp price increases.
Slippage Execution of order for a price different from expected (ordered).
Main reasons for slippage are a fast-moving market, low liquidity, and low
broker’s ability to execute orders at a certain moment.
Spot market Market where people buy and sell actual financial instru-
ments (currencies) for two-day delivery.
Spot price The current market price of a currency that normally settles in
two business days (one day for U.S. dollar and Canadian dollar).
Spread This point or pip difference between the bid and ask price of a
currency pair.
Square (SeeFlat (square).)
Sterling Another term for the British currency, the British pound.
Stop (loss) order Order to buy or sell when a given price is reached or
passed to liquidate part or all of an existing position.
Stop order (or stop) An order to buy or to sell a currency when the cur-
rency’s price reaches or passes a specified level.
Support Price level for which intensive buying can lead to the price
decreasing (downtrend).
Support levels A price at which a currency or the currency market will
receive considerable buying pressure.
Swap A transaction that moves the maturity date of an open position to a
future date.
Take-profit order A customer’s instructions to buy or sell a currency
pair that, when executed, will result in the reduction in the size of the exist-
ing position and show a profit on said position.

298 GLOSSARY
Technical analysis Analysis based only on technical market data (quotes)
with the help of various technical indicators.
Tick The smallest possible change in a price, either up or down.
Transaction date The date on which a trade occurs.
Trend Direction of market that has been established with influence of
different factors.
Turnover The total volume of all executed transactions in a given time
period.
Two-way price A quote in the FOREX market that indicates a bid and
an offer.
Unrealized (floating) profit/loss A usually fluctuating profit or loss that
derives from your nonclosed (active) positions.
Useable margin Amount of money in an account that can be used for
trading.
Used margin Amount of money in an account that already has been used
to hold positions open.
U.S.Dollar Index (USDX) Measures the performance of the U.S. dollar
against a basket of currencies: EUR, JPY, GBP, CAD, CHF, and SEK.
Value date The maturity date of a currency for settlement, usually two
business days (one day for Canada) after the trade has occurred.
Variation margin Funds that are required to bring the equity in an
account back up to the initial margin level, calculated on a day-to-day basis.
Volatility (VOL) Statistical measure of the change in price of a financial
currency pair over a given time period.

BIBLIOGRAPHY
RESEARCH MATERIALS
PremiereTrade: http://PremiereTrade.com
BabyPips: http://babypips.com
Bolsa Gráfica: http://www.bolsagrafica.com/
Candlesticker (Candlestick Patterns): http://www.candlesticker.com
Go Currency: http://www.gocurrency.com
Investopedia: http://www.investopedia.com
Stock Charts: http://www.stockcharts.com
LIST OF RECOMMENDED BOOKS
Booker, Rob. Adventures of a Currency Trader: A Fable about Trading,
Courage, and Doing the Right Thing,Wiley, 2007.
Douglas, Mark. The Disciplined Trader: Developing Winning Attitudes,
Prentice Hall Press, 1990.
Lefèvre,Edwin.Reminiscences of a Stock Operator,Wiley, 2004.
Livermore, Jesse L., Richard Smitten (Collaborator), Teresa Aligood (Edi-
tor).How to Trade in Stocks : The Livermore Formula for Combining
Time Element and Price, rev ed.Traders Press, 2001.
299

300 BIBLIOGRAPHY
Murphy, John J. Technical Analysis of the Financial Markets: A Compre-
hensive Guide to Trading Methods and Applications (New York Insti-
tute of Finance), Prentice Hall Press, 1999
Nison, Steve. Beyond Candlesticks: New Japanese Charting Techniques
Revealed,Wiley, 1994.
Nison, Steve. Japanese Candlestick Charting Techniques, Second Edition,
2nd ed. Prentice Hall, Press 2001.
Schwager, Jack D.Stock Market Wizards: Interviews with America’s Top
Stock Traders,Marketplace Books, 2008.

Index
A Arcs, Fibonacci, 208, 208f
Abandoned baby pattern: Ascending triangle patterns, 194f,195
bearish, 282f Asian option, 243
bullish, 276f Ask price, 21
AB(cid:2)CD patterns, 212f,213 Assets, underlying, 242
Abundance, 117 ATR (seeAverage true range)
Account equity, 84 Attitude, toward losing, 68, 82,
Account size, position and, 73 95–96, 101
Accounts, trading (seeTrading Australian dollar “Aussie” (AUD),
accounts) 12–13
Accumulation phase, in bullish trend, Auto sales, as economic indicator, 136
126 Automated trading, 44–45, 233–237
Actual price, 84, 222 Automatic programming interfaces
Advance, in measured moves, 201 (APIs), 233–235
Advance block pattern, bearish, 283f Avarice, 104
Advisors, 233–234 Average directional movement index
ADX (seeAverage directional (ADX), 163–164, 163f
movement index) Average true range (ATR), 31–32,
Affirmations, 113–117 168f,169–169
Alliances, strategic, 117–118 Averages, in Dow theory, 125, 126
American option, 243 Averaging into a position, 52–53
Analysts, 9
Andrew’s pitchfork (tool), 259f,260 B
APIs (automatic programming Backtesting (automated trading
interfaces), 233–235 systems), 234
301

302 INDEX
Bad trades, 105–108 Box size (point and figure charts), 160
Balance of payments indicators, Brain, neural networks in, 235
127–128 Brainstorming groups, 118–119
Bank of Japan, 137–139 Brazilian real (BRL), 19
Banks, 49, 75, 124, 140–142 Breakaway pattern:
Bar charts, 155f,156, 160–161, 161f bearish, 284f
BARR pattern (seeBump-and-run bullish, 279f
reversal pattern) Breakeven price, 63
Base currencies, xiv, 22 Breakeven stops, 107
“Basket of currencies” hedge, Breakouts, 215, 221, 231, 253–258
261–262 “Breathing,” 31, 72
Bat patterns, 210–211, 211f British pound (GBP), 13–14
Bear spread strategy, 245 Broken trends, 216
Bear traps, 173 Brokers, 38–47
Bearish deliberation pattern, 284f features of, 41–45
Bearish divergence, 178, 179f in FOREX market, 4–5, 7, 50
Bearish markets, 158, 170, 182, 182f regulation, reputation and size of,
Bearish outside bars (BEOBs), 151 39–40
Bearish reversal patterns, 281f–284f, types of, 41–42, 45–47
286f Bulkowski, Thomas, 192
Bearish trends, phases of, 127 Bull spread strategy, 245
Bears power, 169–170 Bull traps, 173
Beliefs, 98, 113–114 Bullish divergence, 178, 178f
Belt hold pattern: Bullish markets, 158, 170, 182, 182f
bearish, 284f Bullish outside bars (BUOBs), 151
bullish, 279f Bullish reversal patterns, 276f–279f,
BEOBs (bearish outside bars), 151 281f
Bid price, 21 Bullish trends, phases of, 126–127
Bid-ask spreads, 76–77, 81–82 Bulls power, 169–170, 169f
Bids, 21 Bump-and-run reversal (BARR)
Binary contracts for difference pattern, 191,192f
(CFDs), 17 Business inventories, as economic
Black and Scholes formula, 244–245 indicator, 132
Black candlestick pattern: Butterfly patterns, 209, 209f
bearish long black candlestick, 286f Butterfly strategy, for options, 246
neutral, 288f “Buy low; sell high.”, 221
neutral short black candlestick, 288f “Buy the rumor; sell the fact.” in news
Bodies (of candlesticks), 182–183 trading, 144, 145
Bollinger, John, 164 Buying opportunities, in Heiken-Ashi
Bollinger bands, 164–166, 165f charts, 158

INDEX 303
Buy/sell limit orders, 28 impulsive and corrective moves in,
Buy/sell market orders, 27–28 153–154
Buy/sell orders, 71 line, 154f,155
Buy/sell stop loss orders, 28 pip range bar (candlestick),
160–161, 161f
C point and figure, 160, 160f
C corporations, 111 price action in, 150–153
“Cable,” 13 Renko, 159, 159f
Calls (call options), 242–244 Chinese renminbi (RMB), 18
Canadian dollar (CAD), 13 Chinese yuan (CNY), 18
Candlestick charts, 156–157, 156f, Classic (regular) divergence, 177–179,
160–161, 161f 178f,179f
Candlestick patterns, 276–288 Close value (Heiken-Ashi charts),
bearish, 281f–286f 158
bullish, 276f–281f Closing positions, 24
neutral, 287f–288f Clouds (ichimoku kinko hyo),
in technical analysis, 181–185 177, 177f
Capacity utilization, 131 Coding, for automated trading,
Capital, risk, 82 234, 235
Capital gains, 250 Commerce, as basis of FOREX
Capitalization, 82–83 transactions, 74
Carry trades, 139–140 Commercial banks, 49, 75
Caution, 73 Commissions, 7, 9–10, 43
CCI (seeCommodity channel index) Commodities, 250–251
Central Bank of Iraq, 19 Commodity channel index (CCI),
Central banks, 49, 75, 124, 140–142 166–167, 166f
CFDs (seeContracts for difference) Commodity Futures Trading
CFTC (seeCommodity Futures Commission (CFTC), 39, 86
Trading Commission) Concealing baby swallow pattern,
Channeling, 258–260, 259f bullish, 277f
Channels: Confidence, 101–102 (See also
Fibonacci, 207, 207f,260, 260f Overconfidence)
price, 198–199, 198f,258–260, Confidence and sentiments reports,
259f 128
Character (of traders), 61 Confirmation, in Dow theory, 126
Chartism, 16, 185 Confusion, 100
Charts, 73, 150–161 Connectionist movement, 235
bar, 155f,156 Consolidation, in measured moves,
candlestick, 156–157, 156f 202
Heiken-Ashi, 157–158, 157f Consolidation patterns, 231, 254

304 INDEX
Construction data, as economic Crow patterns:
indicator, 132–133 bearish three black crows, 282f
Consumer price index (CPI), 133 bearish three upside gap two crows,
Consumer sentiment, as economic 282f
indicator, 136 bearish two crows, 284f
Consumer spending indicators, 135 Crude oil, 17
Consumption, in gross domestic Cup-with-handle pattern, 199–200,
product, 142 200f
Consumption spending, 130 Currencies and currency pairs, xiv,
Continuation patterns, 154, 192–203 11–20
bearish, 285f–286f brokers’access to, 44
bullish, 280f–281f correlations between, 261
cup-with-handle, 199–200, 200f and crude oil, 17
flags and pennants, 192–193, 193f and Dow Jones Industrial Average
measured moves as, 201–203, (DJIA), 16
201f,202f and gold contracts for difference,
neutral, 287f–288f 16–17
price channels, 198–199, 198f major, 143
rectangles, 196–198, 196f,197f and U.S. Dollar Index, 15
triangles, 194–196, 194f Customer service (of brokers), 42
Contracts for difference (CFDs),
16–17, 249–250 D
Contrarian indicators, 145–146 Daily charts, 229
Contrarian stop orders, 257 Daily high-low trading strategy,
Control, 109 265–268, 265f,266f
Corporations, trade, 111 Danish krone (DKK), 19
Corrections (corrective moves), Dark cloud cover pattern, bearish, 281f
145–146, 153–154, 202 Day trading, 51
Correlations, in currencies, 261 DBHLC (double-high lower close)
Counter currencies, xiv patterns, 151
Counter-trending, 166 Dealers, 110
Country risk, 86 Decline, in measured moves, 201
Coverage, in futures, 247 Deliberation pattern, bearish, 284f
CPI (consumer price index), 133 Demand, 217
Crab patterns, 211, 212f DeMark, Tom, 226
Credit risk, 86 DeMark pivot points, 226
Crossovers, in MACD oscillator, Demo (paper) trading, 38, 77–80, 234
173–174 Deposits, for brokers, 41
Cross-rate currency pairs (crosses), Descending triangle patterns, 194f,
17–18, 26–27, 27t,263 195–196

INDEX 305
-DI (negative directional indicator), bearish evening doji star, 282f
164 bearish gravestone doji, 283f
(cid:5)DI (positive directional indicator), bearish long-legged doji, 283f
164 bullish doji star, 278f
Directional movement index (DMI), bullish dragonfly doji, 277f
164 bullish gravestone doji, 277f
Directional movement indicators bullish long-legged doji, 277f
(DMIs), 163 bullish morning doji star, 276f
Discipline, 67–70, 103 dragonfly doji, 184
Discouragement phase, in bearish neutral doji, 287f
trend, 127 neutral four price doji, 287f
Distraction, 103 neutral long legged doji, 287f
Distribution phase, in bearish trend, Double bottoms pattern, 186–187, 186f
127 Double no-touch options, 246
Distribution (speculation) phase, in Double one-touch options, 246
bullish trend, 127 Double tops pattern, 186–187, 186f
Divergences, 174, 177–179 Double-high lower close (DBHLC)
Diversification, 241–252 patterns, 151
with commodities, 250–251 Dow, Charles H., 16, 149, 181
with contracts for difference, Dow Jones Index (DJI), 252
249–250 Dow Jones Industrial Average (DJIA),
with FOREX exchange-traded 16, 275
funds, 248–249 Dow Jones Transport Average (DJTA),
with FOREX futures, 247–248 16
with FOREX single-payment Dow theory, 125–127
options trading, 246–247 Down bars, 216
with indices, 251–252 Down candles (candlestick charts), 156
with options, 241–246 Down fractals, 214
DJI (Dow Jones Index), 252 Downtrends, 153
DJIA (seeDow Jones Industrial Dragonfly doji, 184
Average) Drawdown, 67, 85, 85t
DJTA (Dow Jones Transport Average), Durable goods orders, as economic
16 indicator, 132
DMI (directional movement index),
164 E
DMIs (directional movement EBS (electronic broking service), 75
indicators), 163 ECB (European Central Bank), 12
Doji candlesticks, 184, 184f ECI (employment cost index), 135
bearish doji star, 283f ECNs (seeElectronic communication
bearish dragonfly doji, 283f networks)

306 INDEX
Economic forecasts, 6, 74 and trading psychology, 95–99
Economic instability, 86 Employment cost index (ECI), 135
Economic modeling, 237 Employment indicators, 129, 134–135
Economic news releases, 21, 66, 107, Engulfing pattern:
123, 143–145 bearish, 283f
Economics, 123–146 bullish, 277f
contrarian indicators in, 145–146 Entering positions (entries), 62, 64, 66,
Dow theory, 125–127 221, 266–267
and economic news releases, 123 Environment, for trading, 49–50
and FOREX currency carry trades, Envy, 104
139–140 Equity, account, 84
and fundamental analysis, 123–125 ESCB (European System of Central
gross domestic product, 142 Banks), 12
interventions in, 140–141 ETFs (exchange-traded funds),
Japan’s monetary policy, 137–139 248–249
and trading the news, 143–145 EUR/GBP currency pair, 26, 27t
U.S. economic indicators, 127–137 Euro (EUR), 12
Economy growth, in fundamental European Central Bank (ECB), 12
analysis, 124 European option, 243
Efficiency, 68 European System of Central Banks
Elder, Alexander, 169 (ESCB), 12
Electronic broking service (EBS), 75 European Union, 12
Electronic communication networks EUR/USD currency pair, 26, 27t
(ECNs), 45–47, 75–76 Evening star pattern, bearish, 282f
Electronic failures, 86–87 Excess trading, 105
Electronic trading, tools for, 47, Exchange-rate risk, 86
71, 110 Exchange-traded funds (ETFs),
Elliott, Ralph Nelson, 203 248–249
Elliott waves, 203–204, 204f Execution (strike) price, 241–243
EMA (seeExponential (exponentially Exhaustion, 103
weighted) moving average) Exiting positions (exits), 62, 64, 66,
Emergency stops, 32 106–108, 221, 267
Emotions, 95–111 Exotic currency pairs, 18
and bad trades, 105–108 Expansions, Fibonacci, 206, 206f
controlling, 109 Expiration times (options), 241, 242
effect of, on trading, 99–105 Expiry date (options), 243
of investors, 233 Exponential (exponentially weighted)
of professional traders, 110–111 moving average (EMA), 162–163,
and trader’s ten commandments, 162f,262, 262f,263, 263f
108–109 Exports, 142

INDEX 307
F FOREX single-payment options
Factory orders, as economic indicator, trading (SPOT), 246–247
131 Forums, trading, 118–119
Falling wedges pattern, 189–190, 189f Four price doji pattern, neutral, 287f
Fans, Fibonacci, 207f,208 Fractals, 214–215, 215f
FCMs (seeFutures commission FSA (Financial Services Authority),
merchants) 39
Fear, 79, 105 Fundamental analysis, 5, 6, 35,
“Fiber,” 12 123–125
Fibonacci arcs, 208, 208f Fundamental phase, in bullish trend,
Fibonacci channels, 207, 207f, 127
260, 260f Future, predicting the, 71, 108
Fibonacci expansions, 206, 206f Futures, 9–10, 10t,247–248
Fibonacci fans, 207f,208 Futures commission merchants
Fibonacci patterns, 204–208 (FCMs), 24, 39 (See alsoBrokers)
Fibonacci retracements, 205–206, FX market (seeForeign exchange
205f,220 market)
Filled candlesticks, 157
Fills, guarantees on, 41 G
Financial Services Authority (FSA), 39 Gaps, 264
5-minute charts, 229 Gartley patterns, 210, 210f
Flagpoles, 192 GDI (gross domestic income), 142
Flags and pennants pattern, 192–193, GDP (seeGross domestic product)
193f GDP implicit deflator, 133–134
Flat positions, 22 GDP per capita, 142
Flexibility, 108 Generosity, 117
Forecasts, 6, 74 GFD (good for the day) orders, 29
Foreign exchange (FOREX) (FX) Gluttony, 105
market, 3–10 GNP (seeGross national product)
about, xiii–xiv GNP implicit deflator, 133
futures market vs., 9–10, 10t Goals, 65, 69–70, 114–117
history of, 3–6 “Going long in the market,” 22
players in, 49–50 “Going short,” 22
stock market vs., xii, 7–9, 8t Gold contracts for difference (CFDs),
terminology, 21–34 16–17
FOREX exchange-traded funds Golden ratio (golden mean), 204
(ETFs), 248–249 Good for the day (GFD) orders, 29
FOREX futures, 247–248 Good till canceled (GTC) orders, 29
FOREX options, 241–246 Good trades, 106
FOREX quotes, 4 Good until date/time orders, 29

308 INDEX
Goods, durable vs. nondurable, High wave pattern, neutral, 287f
131, 132 Higher highs (HHs), 152f,153
Government spending, 130, 142 Higher lows (HLs), 152f,153
Gratitude, 115–116 HLC bars, 156
Gravestone doji: “Holy Grail” of traders, 269–271
bearish, 283f Home offices, 49–50
bullish, 277f Homing pigeon pattern, bullish, 278f
Greed, 79, 109 Homma, 181
Gross domestic product (GDP), 128, Honesty (of brokers), 41
130, 142 Housing figures, as economic
Gross national product (GNP), indicators, 129
130, 131 How to Make Money in Stocks
Group mentality, 68 (William O’Neil), 199
Growth, economy, 124 H&S pattern (seeHead-and-shoulders
GTC (good till canceled) orders, 29 pattern)
Guarantees, from brokers, 41 Human development index (HDI), 142
H I
Hammer pattern: IBs (introducing brokers), 41–42
bullish, 279f Ichimoku kinko hyo, 176–177, 177f
bullish inverted, 279f If done (IFD) orders, 29, 257
Hanging man pattern, bearish, 284f IMF (International Monetary Fund),
Harami pattern: 19
bearish, 284f Imports, 142
bearish cross, 283f Impulsive moves, 153, 154
bullish, 279f In neck pattern, bearish, 285f
bullish cross, 278f Income, personal, 137
Harmonic price patterns, 208–213 Index(—ices), 251–252
bearish, 209–211, 209f–212f Index of the Industrial Sector, 16
bullish, 209–211, 209f–212f Index of the Transportation Sector, 16
HDI (human development index), 142 Indicator(s):
Head-and-shoulders (H&S) pattern, contrarian, 145–146
187–189, 187f,188f fractals as, 214
Hedges and hedging, 24, 40, and price action, 150–151
261–262 stock market as, 8–9
Heiken-Ashi charts, 157–158, 157f stop and reverse, 32
HHs (seeHigher highs) of support and resistance,
Hidden divergence, 177 (See also 219–220
Reverse divergence) U.S. economic, 127–137
High value (Heiken-Ashi charts), 158 (See alsoTechnical indicators)

INDEX 309
Industrial capacity utilization, 131 L
Industrial production indicator, 131 Ladder bottom pattern, bullish, 279f
Inefficiency, 103 Lambert, Donald, 166
Inflation, 124–125, 133 Leading indicators, 128, 136–137
Information overload, 100 Learning, 236, 269–270
Inside bars, 152, 152f,216 Legal issues, 111
Interbank, xiv, 75 Leonardo of Pisa, 204–205
Interest rates, 34, 42–43, 125, 133, Leverage:
137, 139, 140 brokers’levels of, 43–44
Intermediaries, FOREX, 8 in FOREX market, 4
International financial markets, and options, 244–246
commodities in, 250 in real-money trading, 87–89
International Monetary Fund (IMF), and trading on margin, 23
19 Leverage effect, 244
Interventions, in economics, 140–141 Liber Abaci(Leonardo of Pisa), 205
Intraday trading, 52 Liechtenstein, 14
Introducing brokers (IBs), 41–42 Limit orders, 28
Inventories, business, 132 Limited-liability corporations (LLC),
Inverted head-and-shoulders pattern, 111
188–189, 188f Line charts, 154f,155
Investment, in gross domestic product, Linearly weighted moving average
142 (LWMA), 162f,163
Investment spending, 130 Liquidity, 9, 76, 255
Investors, 110 LLC (limited-liability corporations),
Iraqi dinar, 19–20 111
LLs (seeLower lows)
J Long black candlestick pattern,
James Dicks FOREX alerts, 90 bearish, 286f
James Dicks FOREX Network, 68, Long legged doji pattern, neutral,
117, 119 287f
JamesDicks.com, xiv, 39, 44, 78, 117, Long positions, 21–23, 170
270, 271 Long white candlestick pattern,
Japan, 134, 137–139 bullish, 281f
Japanese yen (JPY), 14–15, 139–140 “Longing the market,” 22
Long-term trading, 51, 107
K “Loonie,” 13
Kicking pattern: Losing and losses, 71, 73, 271
bearish, 281f attitude toward, 68, 82, 95–96, 101
bullish, 276f percentages to recover from,
“Kiwi,” 15 85, 85t

310 INDEX
Lots, 27, 27t bearish black closing, 286f
micro, 27, 27t,38, 91 bearish black opening, 286f
mini, 27, 27t,38 bullish white, 281f
nano, 91 bullish white closing, 281f
standard, 27, 38 bullish white opening, 281f
Low value (Heiken-Ashi charts), 158 MAs (seeMoving averages)
Lower lows (LLs), 152f,153 Mat hold pattern, bullish, 280f
Lust, excess trading as, 105 Matching low pattern, bullish, 278f
LWMA (seeLinearly weighted Maximum drawdown, 85, 85t
moving average) Maximum loss, 84
Measured moves, 201–203,
M 201f,202f
MACD oscillator (seeMoving average Meeting lines pattern:
convergence-divergence oscillator) bearish, 283f
Macroeconomics, 123–124 bullish, 278f
Major currencies, 143 Mentored trading communities, 119
Managing positions, 23 Merchandise trade balance, as
Margin, 88 economic indicator, 134
Margin calls, 10, 43 Metals, as commodities, 250, 251
Marginal trading, 5 Mexican peso (MXN), 19
Market and volatility indicators, Micro accounts, 4–5, 27, 27t,
168–173 37–39, 88
Market corrections, 145–146 Micro lots, 27, 27t,38, 91
Market hours, 144 “Million Dollar Portfolio Challenge”
Market makers, 45–46, 75 (television series), xiv
Market orders, 28–29 Mindsets, for trading, 113–119
Markets: Mini accounts, 4, 27, 27t,
bearish, 158, 170, 182, 182f 37–38, 88
bullish, 158, 170, 182, 182f Mini lots, 27, 27t,38
commodities in, 250 Minor trends, 126
of FOREX, xiii Minsky, M. L., 235
sideways movement of, 217 Mistakes, in trading, 96–99
stalling, 161 Modeling, economic, 237
tendencies in, 126, 150 Momentum indicators, 170, 171f
traders’understanding of, 73–77 Monetary policies, 129, 137–139
in trading plans, 62 Money management, 79, 81–85, 109
trends in, 126–127 Money supply, Japanese, 139
unpredictability of, 73–74 Monitors, computer, 47–48
Marubozu candlesticks, 182–183 Mood, 115
bearish black, 286f Morning star pattern, bullish, 276f

INDEX 311
Moving average convergence- NFA (seeNational Futures
divergence (MACD) oscillator, Association)
163, 173–174, 173f,262, NFP (nonfarm payroll), 135
262f,263 Nicollis, Vicente, 160
Moving averages (MAs), 162–163, No slippage policies, 41
162f,219–220, 220f Nondurable goods, 131
“Moving sideways,” 217 Nonfarm payroll (NFP), 135
Moving-average crosses, 263 Norwegian krone (NOK), 19
Multiple-chart analysis, 229–231, 230f
O
N OCO (one cancels the other) orders,
Nano accounts, 27, 27t 28–29
Nano lots, 91 Offers, 21
National Futures Association (NFA), Offshore brokers, 41
39, 41, 86 OHLC bars, 156
Neck patterns: Oil, crude, 17
bearish in neck, 285f On neck pattern, bearish, 285f
bearish on neck, 285f One cancels the other (OCO) orders,
Negative directional indicator (-DI), 28–29
164 1-hour charts, 229
Negative emotions, 99–101 O’Neil, William, 199
Negative forces, 102–104 One-touch options, 246
Negative thoughts, affirmations and, OPEC (Organization of the Petroleum
114, 116 Exporting Countries), 17
Net exports, 142 Open positions, 21–23
Net trade volume, 131 Open value (Heiken-Ashi charts), 158
Networking, 117–119 Options, 241–246
Neural networks, 235–237 Orders, 7, 22, 27–29 (See also
Neutral continuation patterns, Position[s])
287f–288f Organization of the Petroleum
Neutral doji patterns, 287f Exporting Countries (OPEC), 17
Neutral reversal patterns, 287f–288f Oscillator-based trading strategies,
New Concepts in Technical Trading 262–263, 262f
Systems(Welles Wilder), 168 Oscillators, 169, 173–176
New York Board of Trade, 15 Output reports, for U.S., 128
New Zealand dollar (NZD), 15 Outside bars, 151, 152f,216
News releases, economic, 21, 66, 107, Overconfidence, 73, 89, 91
123, 143–145 Overleveraging, 91
News trading (trading the news), 54, Overnight interest, 34 (See alsoSwaps)
123, 143–145 Overtrading, 89–91

312 INDEX
P Position(s), 22
PAL (premiere advisor language), 45 and account size, 73
Panic phase, in bearish trend, 127 closing of, 24
Paper (demo) trading, 38, 77–80, 234 entering, 62, 64, 66, 221,
Papert, S. A., 235 266–267
Parabolic stop and reverse (PSAR), exiting, 62, 64, 66, 106–108,
167–168, 167f 221, 267
Patience, 72 flat, 22
Payment currencies, xiv long, 21–23, 170
PB patterns (seePin bar patterns) managing of, 23
People’s Bank of China, 18 open, 21–23
Perceptrons(M. L. Minsky and scaling out of, 73, 91
S. A. Papert), 235 short, 21
Performance, 67, 71, 72 sizes of, 62
Personal income, as economic splitting of, 222, 254
indicator, 137 (See alsoOrders)
Personality (of traders), 61 Position trading, 52–53
Phase of accumulation, in bullish Positive directional indicator ((cid:5)DI),
trend, 126 164
Phase of discouragement, in bearish Positive emotions, 99–100
trend, 127 Power failures, 86–87
Phase of distribution, in bearish trend, PPI (producer price index), 133
127 Prejudices, 108
Phase of distribution or speculation, in Premiere advisor language (PAL), 45
bullish trend, 127 Premiums (options), 242, 244–245
Phase of panic, in bearish trend, 127 Preparations for trading, 37–58
Phase of tendency or fundamental, in choosing brokers, 38–47
bullish trend, 127 defining players in FOREX,
Piercing line pattern, bullish, 276f 49–50
Pin bar (PB) patterns, 151, 151f selecting a trading strategy, 50–54
Pinocchio patterns, 151 tools for trading, 47–49
Pip range bar (candlestick) charts, and trader’s levels of development,
160–161, 161f 55–58
Pip value, 84 trading accounts, 37–38
Pips (points), 24–27, 72, 92, 144–145 Price(s):
Pivot points, 222–226, 223f,224f, actual, 84, 222
225t,260 ask, 21
Point and figure charts, 160, 160f bid, 21
Points, 24 (See alsoPips) breakeven, 63
Political instability, 86 execution (strike), 241–243

INDEX 313
in FOREX market, 10, 76–77 overleveraging, 91
quarter, 226 overtrading in, 89–91
round-number, 226–228, 228f and paper trading, 38
Price action, 73, 150–161, 270 trader expectations in, 92
Price channels, 198–199, 198f, Recession of 1990s, 136
258–260, 259f Reciprocity, 117
Price development, in fundamental Rectangle patterns, 196–198, 196f,197f
analysis, 124–125 Regular divergence, 177 (See also
Price line (line charts), 155 Classic divergence)
Price patterns, harmonic, 208–213 Regulations, for brokers, 39–40
Price-action patterns, 151–153 Relative strength index (RSI),
Prices, salary, and wages figures, for 175–176, 176f,262, 262f
U.S., 128–129 Renko charts, 159, 159f
Pride, 104 Reputations (of brokers), 40
Primary tendencies, in markets, 150 Resistance, 218–219 (See alsoSupport
Primary trends, 126 and resistance)
Producer price index (PPI), 133 Responsibility, in trading plans, 68
Professional traders, emotions of, Retail brokers, 45 (See alsoMarket
110–111 makers)
Profits, 22, 69, 71 Retail sales, as economic indicator,
Program trading, 233 135–136
Progressive time-frame breakouts, Retracements, Fibonacci, 205–206,
257f,258 205f,220
PSAR (seeParabolic stop and reverse) Reversal patterns, 186–192
Psychology, trading and, 95–99, 145, bearish, 281f–284f,286f
226–228 bullish, 276f–279f,281f
Puts (put options), 242–244 neutral, 287f–288f
Reversals, 145–146, 231
Q Reverse (hidden) divergence, 177–179,
Quarter prices, 226 178f,179f
Quote currencies, xiv, 22 Rising wedges pattern, 189–190, 189f
Quotes, 4, 41 Risk, 10, 72, 86–88, 108
Risk capital, 82
R Risk management:
Range breakouts, 253f,254–255 calculator for, 83–85, 83t
Real-money trading, 81–92 in demo trading, 79
accounts for, 37–38 for futures, 247
leverage in, 87–89 in trading plans, 62, 64, 65
managing risk in, 86–87 Risk percentage, 84
and money management, 81–85 Risk/reward ratio, 84

314 INDEX
Rollover interest, 34 (See alsoSwaps) Slippage, 28, 76–77
Rounding bottom patterns, 190, 191f Sloth, 105
Rounding top patterns, 190 SMA (seeSimple moving average)
Round-number prices, 226–228, 228f Software, for trading, 39 (See also
RSI (seeRelative strength index) Trading platforms)
Rumors, 8–9 South African rand (ZAR), 19
Speculation, 8, 141
S Speculation phase, in bullish trend,
SAR indicators (seeStop and reverse 127
indicators) Spending, 128–130
Saucers, in reversal patterns, 190 Spinning top pattern:
Scaling out of positions, 73, 91 neutral black, 287f
Scalping, 39, 51–52, 90, 158, 168 neutral white, 287f
Scams, 86 Spinning tops, 183, 183f
Secondary tendencies, in markets, 150 Splitting of positions, 222, 254
Secondary trends, 126 SPOT (single-payment options
Self-destruction, 102–103 trading), 246–247
Separating lines pattern: Spreads, 21, 33–34, 43, 76–77
bearish, 286f Stalling markets, 161
bullish, 280f Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, 252
Shadows, 183, 183f Standard accounts, 38, 88
Shooting star pattern, bearish, 284f Standard lots, 27, 38
Short black candlestick pattern, Standard of living, 142
neutral, 288f Star patterns:
Short positions, 21, 23 bearish doji star, 283f
Short selling, 7–8 bearish evening doji star, 282f
Short white candlestick pattern, bearish evening star, 282f
neutral, 288f bearish shooting star, 284f
“Shorting the market,” 22 bearish tri star, 284f
Short-term trading, 51, 108 bullish doji star, 278f
Side-by-side white lines pattern: bullish morning doji star, 276f
bearish, 285f bullish morning star, 276f
bullish, 280f bullish three stars in the south, 278f
Sideways movement, 217 bullish tri star, 278f
Simple moving average (SMA), 162, Stick sandwich pattern, bullish, 278f
162f,164 Stochastic oscillators, 174–175, 175f
Simplicity, in trading, 109 Stocks and stock market, xii, 7–9, 8t,
Singapore dollar (SGD), 19 125, 251–252
Single-payment options trading Stop and reverse (SAR) indicators, 32,
(SPOT), 246–247 167–168, 167f

INDEX 315
“Stop hunting,” 33 Swaps (overnight or rollover interest),
Stop loss, 84, 106–107, 222, 34, 42–43
265–267 Swedish krona (SEK), 18
Stop-loss orders, 28, 84–85 Swing trading, 53–54
Stops, 32–33 Swings, 53
breakeven, 107 Swiss franc “Swissie” (CHF), 14
calculator for setting, 83–85, 83t Symmetric triangle patterns,
contrarian, 257 194, 194f
emergency, 32 System failures, 86–87
in trading plans, 62, 66
trailing, 106 T
Straddle buy strategy, 245 Take-profit levels, 33
Straddle trading, 54, 166 Tankan Index, 138–139
Strangle buy strategy, 245 Targets (take-profit levels), 33, 66,
Strategic alliances, 117–118 83–85, 83t,106–107, 222
Stress, 100, 102 Tasuki gap pattern:
Strike (execution) price, 241–243 bearish downside, 285f
Subconscious mind, affirmations and, bullish upside, 280f
114–115 Taxes, 110–111
Sub-S corporations, 111 Technical analysis, 6, 35, 149–150
Supply, 217 Technical indicators, 149–179
Support, 217–218 (See alsoSupport charts with price action, 150–161
and resistance) divergences, 177–179
Support and resistance, 217–231 ichimoku kinko hyo as, 176–177,
about, 217–219 177f
and Bollinger bands, 165 market and volatility indicators,
and entering positions, 221 168–173
and exiting positions, 221 oscillators as, 173–176
and fractals, 214, 215 and technical analysis, 149–150
and identifying trends, 231 trend indicators, 162–168
indicators of, 219–220 Technical patterns, 181–216
and pivot points, 222–226 candlesticks, 181–185
psychological levels of, 226–228 in chartism, 185
in Renko charts, 159 continuation patterns, 192–203
in stop-loss strategies, 107 Elliott waves, 203–204
stops based on, 32 Fibonacci, 204–208
in technical analysis, 150 fractals as, 214–215
time frames for, 228–231 harmonic price patterns, 208–213
Support and resistance breakouts, reversal patterns, 186–192
256–257, 256f,257f for trading naked, 215–216

316 INDEX
Ten commandments, trader’s, 108–109 Trade corporations, 111
Tendencies, in markets, 150 Trade size, 84
Tendency (fundamental) phase, in Traders, 61–80
bullish trend, 127 capital sins of, 104–105
Tertiary tendencies, in markets, 150 definition of, for tax purposes,
Tertiary (minor) trends, 126 110–111
“38 Steps to Becoming a Trader,” demo trading by, 77–80
273–275 emotions of, 110–111
Thoughts, negative, 114, 116 expectations of, 92
Three drives patterns, 213, 213f “Holy Grail” of, 269–271
Three inside down pattern, bearish, 282f levels of development of, 55–58
Three inside up pattern, bullish, 276f personality and character elements
Three line strike pattern: of, 61
bearish, 286f rules and discipline of, 67–73
bullish, 280f trading plans of, 62–67
Three methods pattern: understanding of markets by, 73–77
bearish downside gap, 285f Trader’s ten commandments, 108–109
bearish falling, 285f Trades:
bullish rising, 280f bad, 105–108
bullish upside gap, 280f carry, 139–140
Three outside down pattern, bearish, good, 106
282f records of, 64–65, 67
Three outside up pattern, bullish, 276f winning, 106
Three river pattern, bullish, 279f Trading:
Three stars in the south pattern, conditions for, 72
bullish, 278f effect of emotions on, 99–105
Three white soldiers pattern, bullish, excess, 105
277f of interventions, 141
Thrusting pattern, bearish, 286f learning about, 269–270
Tick value (futures), 247 marginal, 5
Ticks (futures), 247 and psychology, 95–99, 145,
Time frames: 226–228
for breakouts, 257–258 tools for, 47–49, 71, 110
defined, 29–32 with trends, 108
for support and resistance, 228–231, (See alsoPreparations for trading)
230f Trading accounts, 37–38
in trading plans, 63 micro, 4–5, 27, 27t,37–39, 88
and trends, 153 mini, 4, 27, 27t,37–38, 88
Timed orders, 29 nano, 27, 27t
Trade balance, 125, 134 standard, 38, 88

INDEX 317
Trading Chaos(Bill M. Williams), 214 Tri star pattern:
Trading communities, mentored, 119 bearish, 284f
Trading forums, 118–119 bullish, 278f
Trading naked, 215–216 Triangle patterns, 194–196, 194f
Trading on margin, 23 Triple bottoms pattern, 187
Trading plans, 62–67, 97, 109 Triple tops pattern, 187
Trading platforms, 39, 44, 77–78 True hedging, 261
Trading psychology, 95–99 True leverage, 87
Trading strategies, 253–268
breakouts in, 253–258 U
channeling, 258–260 Umbrella pattern:
daily high-low, 265–268 neutral, 287f
gaps in, 264 neutral inverted, 287f
hedging, 261–262 Underlying assets (of options), 242
moving-average crosses in, 263 Unemployment, 125, 134
oscillator-based, 262–263 United Kingdom, 13–14, 39–40
rules for, 70–73 United States, 24, 39, 127–137
selecting, 50–54 Unpredictability of markets, 73–74
in trading plans, 63, 64 Up bars, 215–216
Trading the news (news trading), 54, Up candles (candlestick charts), 156
123, 143–145 Up fractals, 214
Trailing stops, 32–33, 106 Uptrends, 153
Training, 103–104, 236 U.S. dollar (USD), 11, 17, 25–26, 143
Trend breakouts, 255f,256 U.S. Dollar Index (USDX), 15
Trend indicators, 162–168 USD/CHF currency pair, 25, 27t
Trendlines, 219, 221 USD/JPY currency pair, 25, 27t
Trends: USDX (U.S. Dollar Index), 15
broken, 216 Utilization of capacity, 131
in FOREX, 149
in Heiken-Ashi charts, 158 V
holding to, 69–70 Values (of traders), 114–115
identifying, 231 Void candlesticks, 157
of markets (in Dow theory), Volatility, 72, 86, 143, 158, 165,
126–127 168–169
phases of, 126–127 Volume, 126, 203, 255
staying with, 71 Volume indicators, 171–173, 171f
in technical analysis, 149–150
and time frames, 153 W
trading with, 108 Wedges, in reversal patterns, 189–190,
on weekly charts, 229 189f

318 INDEX
Weekly charts, 229 Wrath, 104–105
White candlestick pattern: Writers (of options), 242
bullish long white candlestick,
281f X
neutral, 288f XpressFX.com, 42, 43
neutral short white candlestick,
288f Y
Wilder, J. Welles, 167 Yen carry trade, 139–140
Wilder, Welles, 168
Williams, Bill M., 214 Z
Winning trades, 106 Zero interest rates, 138
About the Author
James Dicks is president and CEO of a group of financial compa-
nies, including PremierTrade, LLC. He founded FOREX Made Easy,
the largest introducer of spot retail FOREX customers in the United
States. Dicks is from Orlando, Florida. For more information, visit
www.JamesDicks.com.

