

JWBK100-FM.qxd 2/26/08 12:19 PM Page iii epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File:JWB
Getting Started in
CANDLESTICK
CHARTING
Tina Logan
JOHN WILEY & SONS, INC.

JWBK100-FM.qxd 2/26/08 12:19 PM Page x epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File:JWB

JWBK100-FM.qxd 2/26/08 12:19 PM Page i epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File:JWBK
Getting Started in
CANDLESTICK
CHARTING

JWBK100-FM.qxd 2/26/08 12:19 PM Page ii epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File:JWB
The Getting Started inSeries
Getting Started in Online Day Trading by Kassandra Bentley
Getting Started in Asset Allocationby Bill Bresnan and Eric P. Gelb
Getting Started in Online Investingby David L. Brown and Kassandra Bentley
Getting Started in Investment Clubsby Marsha Bertrand
Getting Started in Internet Auctionsby Alan Elliott
Getting Started in Stocksby Alvin D. Hall
Getting Started in Mutual Fundsby Alvin D. Hall
Getting Started in Estate Planningby Kerry Hannon
Getting Started in Online Personal Financeby Brad Hill
Getting Started in 401(k) Investingby Paul Katzeff
Getting Started in Internet Investingby Paul Katzeff
Getting Started in Security Analysisby Peter J. Klein
Getting Started in Global Investingby Robert P. Kreitler
Getting Started in Futures, Fifth Edition,by Todd Lofton
Getting Started in Financial Informationby Daniel Moreau
and Tracey Longo
Getting Started in Emerging Marketsby Christopher Poillon
Getting Started in Technical Analysisby Jack D. Schwager
Getting Started in Real Estate Investingby Michael C. Thomsett
and Jean Freestone Thomsett
Getting Started in Tax-Savvy Investingby Andrew Westham and Don Korn
Getting Started in Annuitiesby Gordon M. Williamson
Getting Started in Bonds, Second Edition,by Sharon Saltzgiver Wright
Getting Started in Retirement Planningby Ronald M. Yolles and Murray Yolles
Getting Started in Online Brokersby Kristine DeForge
Getting Started in Project Managementby Paula Martin and Karen Tate
Getting Started in Six Sigmaby Michael C. Thomsett
Getting Started in Currency Tradingby Michael D. Archer
and James L. Bickford
Getting Started in Rental Incomeby Michael C. Thomsett
Getting Started in REITsby Richard Imperiale
Getting Started in Property Flippingby Michael C. Thomsett
Getting Started in Fundamental Analysisby Michael C. Thomsett
Getting Started in Hedge Funds, Second Editionby Daniel A. Strachman
Getting Started in Chart Patternsby Thomas N. Bulkowski
Getting Started in ETFsby Todd K. Lofton
Getting Started in Swing Tradingby Michael C. Thomsett
Getting Started in Options, Seventh Editionby Michael C. Thomsett
Getting Started in A Financially Secure Retirementby Henry Hebeler
Getting Started in Candlestick Charting by Tina Logan

JWBK100-FM.qxd 2/26/08 12:19 PM Page iii epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File:JWB
Getting Started in
CANDLESTICK
CHARTING
Tina Logan
JOHN WILEY & SONS, INC.

JWBK100-FM.qxd 2/26/08 12:19 PM Page iv epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File:JWB
Copyright © 2008 by Tina Logan. All rights reserved
Published by John Wiley & Sons, Inc., Hoboken, New Jersey.
Published simultaneously in Canada.
No part of this publication may be reproduced, stored in a retrieval system, or transmitted in any form or
by any means, electronic, mechanical, photocopying, recording, scanning, or otherwise, except as permitted
under Section 107 or 108 of the 1976 United States Copyright Act, without either the prior written
permission of the Publisher, or authorization through payment of the appropriate per-copy fee to the
Copyright Clearance Center, Inc., 222 Rosewood Drive, Danvers, MA 01923, (978)750-8400, fax (978)
646-8600, or on the Web at www.copyright.com. Requests to the Publisher for permission should be
addressed to the Permissions Department, John Wiley & Sons, Inc., 111 River Street, Hoboken, NJ 07030,
(201) 748-6011, fax (201) 748-6008, or online at http://www.wiley.com/go/permissions.
Limit of Liability/Disclaimer of Warranty: While the publisher and author have used their best efforts in
preparing this book, they make no representations or warranties with respect to the accuracy or completeness
of the contents of this book and specifically disclaim any implied warranties of merchantability or fitness for a
particular purpose. No warranty may be created or extended by sales representatives or written sales materials.
The advice and strategies contained herein may not be suitable for your situation. You should consult with a
professional where appropriate. Neither the publisher nor author shall be liable for any loss of profit or any
other commercial damages, including but not limited to special, incidental, consequential, or other damages.
For general information on our other products and services or for technical support, please contact our
Customer Care Department within the United States at (800) 762-2974, outside the United States at (317)
572-3993 or fax (317) 572-4002.
Wiley also publishes its books in a variety of electronic formats. Some content that appears in print may not
be available in electronic formats. For more information about Wiley products, visit our Web site at
www.wiley.com.
Library of Congress Cataloging-in-Publication Data:
Logan, Tina.
Getting started in candlestick charting / Tina Logan.
p. cm. — (The getting started in series)
Includes bibliographical references and index.
ISBN 978-0-470-18200-0 (pbk.)
1. Stocks—Charts, diagrams, etc. 2. Stocks—Prices—Forecasting.
3. Investment analysis. I. Title.
HG4638.L64 2008
332.63’2042—dc22
2008002758
Printed in the United States of America
10 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1

ftoc.qxd 3/5/08 7:09 PM Page v Wiley 2 Wiley 2:Users:wiley:Desktop:JWBK100-FM:
Contents
Preface vii
Acknowledgments xi
PART I
CANDLESTICK CHARTING
Chapter 1
Introduction to Candlestick Charting 3
Chapter 2
Constructing Candlestick Lines 11
Chapter 3
Candlestick Reversal Patterns 27
Chapter 4
More on Reversal Patterns 79
Chapter 5
Tails 91
PART II
EAST MEETS WEST
Chapter 6
Price,Volume,and Volatility 99
v

ftoc.qxd 3/5/08 7:09 PM Page vi Wiley 2 Wiley 2:Users:wiley:Desktop:JWBK100-FM:
vi CONTENTS
Chapter 7
Trend Analysis 115
Chapter 8
Gaps 151
Chapter 9
Support and Resistance 175
Chapter 10
Putting Candlestick Reversal Patterns to Work 199
Chapter 11
Practice Sets 217
Conclusion 233
Appendix A 235
Appendix B 239
Glossary 243
Bibliography 249
About the Author 251
Index 253

JWBK100-FM.qxd 2/26/08 12:19 PM Page vii epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File:JW
Preface
If the markets moved in a logical fashion, anyone could learn a few basics
and make money trading. But that is not the case. It is the emotional crowd
that moves markets. Traders’ and investors’ greed and fear, imprinted on
charts, are like a road map to the markets. Those who learn to read and deci-
pher the underlying messages of that price movement can gain a much-needed
edge in a competitive environment.
That’s where Getting Started in Candlestick Chartingcomes in. This book
will provide you with a solid foundation from which to begin using candlestick
charts. You’ll learn to recognize candlestick reversal patterns and embed them
in your mind through an understanding of how they reflect the messages of
crowd sentiment. Candlesticks will help you gauge the strength of price moves
and spot potential reversals early, before the crowd reacts.
If you have steered clear of candlestick charting until now because it
seems like there is a mind-numbing number of patterns to learn, you can put
that concern to rest. It is not necessary to learn dozens of candlestick patterns.
This book narrows the focus to several commonly formed candlestick reversal
patterns that you can learn to recognize in short order. You can start right away
utilizing candlesticks to improve your chart analysis skills, and, of course, to in-
crease your profitability.
You will find this book very helpful if you desire to:
• Learn candlestick charting but don’t want to get overwhelmed.
• Learn to recognize high probability trade setups.
• Improve your swing trading techniques. Candlestick charting is a stel-
lar tool for fine-tuning swing trading strategies.
• Learn how to improve the timing of your entries and exits.
• Develop a knowledge base in classic Western technical analysis and un-
derstand the role of candlesticks within that broader framework.
Every effort was made to produce this important learning resource in a
user-friendly format. The chapters are organized in a manner in which they build
one upon the other. The content is written in layman’s terms with a level of
detail that ensures understanding by beginning and intermediate-level traders.
vii

JWBK100-FM.qxd 2/26/08 12:19 PM Page viii epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File:JW
viii PREFACE
I make no apologies for defining technical terms and describing concepts that
advanced level chartists might consider to be familiar territory. However, even
advanced chartists who choose this book with the intent of adding candlesticks
to their technical skill set will find that it suits their purpose. Since a picture is
worth a thousand words, there are numerous illustrations and real-world chart-
ing examples included throughout the chapters. Through careful dissection of
the charts, and the commentary and analysis included with them, you’ll already
be recognizing the key Japanese candlestick patterns and Western technical
events before you finish the last page of this book.
In Part I of the book you’ll learn about candlestick charting. Chapter 2
demonstrates how the candlestick lines are constructed. In Chapter 3 you’ll be
introduced to several common candlestick reversal patterns. You’ll learn their
definitions and the psychology behind each formation. The patterns are well il-
lustrated to help you train your eye to recognize them when analyzing charts. A
summary of the candlestick patterns presented is included in Appendix A.
Once you have thoroughly studied the details of each pattern in Chapter 3, use
this guide for quick reference until you are so familiar with the patterns that
you no longer need it. Chapter 4 will solidify your understanding of how the
reversal patterns are formed and factors that may impact their signals. Chapter
5 wraps up Part I with a discussion of “tails” and how their presence sends a
message about the current market sentiment.
Part II of the book shows you how to put candlestick charting to work.
You’ll learn how to blend Eastern candlestick charting with classic Western
technical analysis. Candlesticks are not a complete trading system. In order to
recognize their full potential you must understand how they fit into the broader
picture. It is crucial to realize the important roles played by volume, volatility,
trends, gaps, support, and resistance. These topics are covered in Chapters 6
through 9. If you are new to chart analysis in general, you’ll find these chapters
to be invaluable. Even if you are already well versed in Western technical analy-
sis, you’ll learn how to merge candlestick charting with Western techniques to
gauge market movement and locate high probability setups. Chapter 10 shows
you how to find the reversal signals and how to put them to work in your trad-
ing strategies.
After gaining new knowledge, it is imperative that you immediately prac-
tice applying what you have learned. To assess your newfound skills, several
practice sets are included in Chapter 11. There is an old proverb that states: “I
hear and I forget. I see and I remember. I do and I understand.” You’ll test your
ability to recognize the candlestick patterns and Western technical occurrences
introduced throughout the book. It will be time well spent. The answer keys
and author’s commentary are provided for you to check your work.
As its title suggests, Getting Started in Candlestick Charting will provide
you enough detailed instruction to get right to work using candlestick charting

JWBK100-FM.qxd 2/26/08 12:19 PM Page ix epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File:JWB
Preface ix
techniques. Once you have mastered the common reversal signals, if you wish
to learn more patterns there are several resources listed in the bibliography at
the back of this book. Getting Started in Candlestick Chartingwill also help you
start to build your foundation of knowledge of Western technical analysis. If
you wish to add to that foundation with more advanced analysis, trade manage-
ment techniques and implementing trading strategies, I offer additional train-
ing in these areas. Feel free to contact me by e-mail at tina@tinalogan.com or
visit my website at www.Tinalogan.com.
I sincerely wish you the best of luck with your trading.
TINALOGAN
San Diego, CA
2007

JWBK100-FM.qxd 2/26/08 12:19 PM Page x epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File:JWB

JWBK100-FM.qxd 2/26/08 12:19 PM Page xi epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File:JWB
Acknowledgments
First I wish to thank Steve Nison for his perseverance in bringing candle-
stick charting to the Western hemisphere. His groundbreaking books
Japanese Candlestick Charting Techniques and Beyond Candlesticks con-
vinced me to add candlestick charting to my repertoire of technical analysis
skills. I’ve never looked at a chart the same since. Stephen Bigalow was also in-
strumental in my candlestick journey. His candlestick books are written based
on his experience using the candlesticks in the trading trenches. Mr. Bigalow
generously invited me to contribute a chapter to his second book High Profit
Candlestick Patterns. Thanks also to authors Gregory Morris and John Person
for their fine contributions on the subject of candlestick charting.
Special recognition goes to two traders who, thankfully, arrived just at the
right times in my trading career. First, Chris Manning who is responsible for
getting me hooked on technical analysis. He had a knack for taking a tough,
and sometimes dry, subject and making it come alive. His teachings were in-
strumental in encouraging me to develop a strong knowledge base in Western
technical analysis. Later I was introduced to Herbert Otto, a nearly 40-year vet-
eran of the markets. I continue to marvel at, and appreciate, how he generously
shares his vast knowledge of both fundamental and technical analysis.
Without the support of my dear friends Michele Furlong and Jelaine
Whipple, who believe in me and constantly encourage me, I may not have
survived the writing of this book! Pat Johnson and Donna Love deserve praise for
all they have done in assisting me in so many ways. They have a genuine interest
in helping people and it does not go unnoticed. And thanks to my friends and
colleagues at the Anthony Robbins Companies. I am certain that I would not be
trading today had I not made that critical stop in my life’s journey.
Thanks to my family for not complaining as I indulge my obsession with
the markets. Although they may not share my enthusiasm for analyzing stock
charts for countless hours each week, they seem to have accepted that I will
continue to do so.
I would like to recognize three amazing women who were mentors at piv-
otal times in my life: Mrs. Muriel Gamble, Mrs. Roberta Cave, and Dr. Deborah
Ballard-Reisch. They all contributed greatly to pushing me forward and
upward.
xi

JWBK100-FM.qxd 2/26/08 12:19 PM Page xii epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File:JW
xii ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
Thank you to Jennifer MacDonald and the John Wiley & Sons team,
who were willing to give me this opportunity to make a contribution to their
Getting Started in series of books. I am amazed at all that goes into writing a
book and how organized they are at getting the final product to the presses.
And last but not least, thanks to my many special clients. Their loyalty
and encouragement has allowed me to continue to indulge my passion for
training and trading.

JWBK100-ch01.qxd 2/26/08 12:18 PM Page 1 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File:JW
1
Part
Candlestick Charting

JWBK100-ch01.qxd 2/26/08 12:18 PM Page 2 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File:JW

JWBK100-ch01.qxd 2/26/08 12:18 PM Page 3 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File:JW
1
Chapter
Introduction to
Candlestick Charting
When I first began using technical analysis years ago, I used the stan-
dard bar chart. Eventually, though, I discovered the candlestick chart
with its unique display of price action. Just switching from bar charts
to candlestick lines alone helped my chart analysis tremendously. Candlesticks
light up the chart’s canvas, making it very quick and easy to see price trends
and changes in the sentiment of market participants.
The next step was to learn the candlestick patterns with their unusual yet
interesting names. After I understood the psychology behind the various patterns,
I never went back to using bar charts. Once you learn to put this powerful chart-
ing tool to work, I am confident that you, too, will get hooked on candlesticks.
As valuable as candlesticks are as a chart analysis tool, they are simply
that—one tool. They should not be viewed in isolation, but instead in the con-
text of the surrounding chart landscape. Japanese candlestick charting should
be blended with classic Western technical analysis methods rather than replac-
ing them. It is the synergy of the two methods—Eastern merged with West-
ern—that provides the means for superior technical analysis.
Getting Started in Candlestick Chartingwill not only provide you with an
introduction to candlesticks, but will show you how to analyze them with the
aid of Western techniques. It will guide you down the path toward advancing
your charting skills and improving profitability.
Evolution of Candlesticks
Japanese candlestick charting is a centuries old methodology that was a secret
of the Far East for generations. Candlestick charting took root in Japan, where
3

JWBK100-ch01.qxd 2/26/08 12:18 PM Page 4 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File:JW
4 CANDLESTICK CHARTING
the first rice exchange was set up in the 1600s. Eventually the exchange was in-
stitutionalized and the Dojima Rice Exchange in Osaka, Japan opened for busi-
ness. Initially, the merchants dealt only in the exchange of the actual product:
rice. In the early 1700s, the exchange shifted to the use of rice coupons. Rice
coupons were sold against future rice deliveries resulting in the creation of fu-
tures contracts. The Dojima Rice Exchange was Japan’s largest rice exchange,
and the world’s first futures market.
The legendary Japanese businessman Munehisa Homma made a consider-
able contribution to the early development of what we know today as candle-
stick charting. In 1750, Homma was granted control of his family’s business,
which included a large rice farming estate. He began trading at the local rice ex-
change in Sakata, Japan, a busy port for the collection and distribution of rice,
and still an important port city today.
Homma accumulated a great fortune trading in the local and regional rice
exchanges. It was said that he set up a network that stretched from Sakata to
Osaka (a few hundred miles), which consisted of men using flags to communi-
cate from rooftops. Homma kept records of his observations of the psychology
of rice traders, as well as a historical record of weather conditions and rice
prices. The trading rules and principles that Homma developed were instru-
mental to the evolution of candlestick analysis.
It wasn’t until a few centuries later that candlestick charting was intro-
duced in the United States. Candlestick charts have become extremely popular
since first being introduced in the West in 1989 by author Steve Nison. The
first edition of his groundbreaking book Japanese Candlestick Charting Tech-
niques was released in 1991 (New York Institute of Finance). Before that time,
candlesticks were virtually unknown in America. If not for Mr. Nison’s perse-
verance and passion for the subject matter, the Western hemisphere may have
continued to be unaware of this remarkable analysis tool.
Fortunately for us, Mr. Nison spent an immense amount of time and ef-
fort researching this charting methodology. This was no easy task. He began his
research and study of candlesticks before the advent of mainstream charting
programs, and as such, initially had to create the charts by hand. In addition, it
also involved the tedious and difficult translation from Japanese to English. Add
to that the challenge of interpretation, and some subjectivity that is an inherent
part of technical analysis, and you can see the magnitude of this undertaking.
As with most great endeavors, he accomplished those tasks with the help of key
contacts he developed in the United States and abroad.
Traders who are new to candlestick charting will enjoy the benefits of
Nison’s persistent efforts, as well as the contributions by other authors who
followed his lead. As candlesticks took hold in America, traders embraced
them and helped integrate this technology into the realm of Western techni-
cal analysis.

JWBK100-ch01.qxd 2/26/08 12:18 PM Page 5 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File:JW
Introduction to Candlestick Charting 5
The use of candlestick charts has now become so common that nearly all
charting programs include them. With the widespread use of computerized
chart analysis, the candlestick chart has become as well known as the bar chart.
In fact, almost every trader that I know uses candlesticks; so I’d surmise that the
candlestick chart has caught up with the bar chart in popularity, and perhaps
even surpassed it.
If a technology is not effective it will not last. Experienced traders will
eventually abandon a methodology if it does not prove worthy as an analysis
tool, which, directly or indirectly, enhances their profits. The fact that candle-
stick charting has been around for centuries is a testament to its effectiveness.
Strengths of Candlesticks
Candlestick charts are superior to bar charts. That is only my opinion, of
course, but it is one that is shared by many skilled chartists. Compare a bar
chart (Figure 1.1) to a candlestick chart (Figure 1.2) and you’ll see that they in-
clude the same price data: the open, high, low and closing prices. The candle-
stick line, however, provides insight into the current psychology of the investing
crowd, which is not as easily identified in a bar chart. Once you become com-
fortable with the candlesticks, and understand their implications, you may find
that a standard bar chart looks incomplete.
Since the candlesticks include the same price data as bar charts, you can
utilize any of the popular technical analysis tools and techniques that can be
used with bar charts, such as moving averages and trendlines.
FIGURE 1.1 Bar chart FIGURE 1.2 Candlestick chart
Source: TeleChart 2007® Source: TeleChart 2007®

JWBK100-ch01.qxd 2/26/08 12:18 PM Page 6 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File:JW
6 CANDLESTICK CHARTING
Candlesticks make analysis quicker and more efficient. Since the area be-
tween the opening and closing prices is boxed and colored, it is obvious
whether the bar is bearish (black) or bullish (white). In addition, the length of
the boxed area tells us how dominant the bears or bulls were during a trading
session. You don’t have to stop and “think it through.”
Candlesticks are tremendous for signaling turning points. They help iden-
tify the sentiment of investors as price becomes overextended or tests support
and resistance levels. Their signals are often received earlier than those from tra-
ditional Western indicators or reversal patterns, which make them a strong tool
for timing entries and exits.
Although the notion of candlesticks providing primarily short-term sig-
nals may be seen as a weakness by some traders, that trait can actually be put to
good use by swing traders. Swing traders tend to take profits after short-term
price moves. Precision entries and exits can make a substantial difference to
their bottom line. Candlesticks provide short-term signals, so they are an excel-
lent swing-trading tool. It is one of the primary ways in which I use them.
Limitations of Candlesticks
Candlesticks are not perfect. Like any technical analysis tool, they do have their
limitations and weaknesses as indicated below:
Because of their boxed construction, candlestick lines take up more space
on a chart. When a chart is tightly compressed, it may be difficult to see the de-
tail of each candlestick line. This is not usually a major hindrance for most
chartists though. Modern charting programs offer the ability to quickly zoom
out or zoom in to see more or less data on the chart.
Most candlestick patterns provide only a short-term glance into investor
psychology. Candlestick signals that form on daily charts may be more benefi-
cial for shorter-term trading than for longer-term investing. However, since
candlesticks can be employed on any time frame, investors may benefit from
utilizing them on weekly charts.
Candlestick patterns do not provide price targets. However, Western tech-
nical analysis does provide techniques for projecting targets, which is a strong
argument for blending the two methodologies.
Candlestick reversal patterns do not predict the duration, or magnitude, of a
price move. They simply alert chartists to a potential change in the direction of price.
With certain setups, by the time a candlestick signal is confirmed price
may be well off its low (bullish pattern) or well off its high (bearish pattern).
Therefore, an entry should not be initiated for a new long or short position
based solely on the pattern. The reward compared to the risk should always be
considered when taking any trade.

JWBK100-ch01.qxd 2/26/08 12:18 PM Page 7 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File:JW
Introduction to Candlestick Charting 7
Most candlestick advocates will agree that the benefits of candlesticks far
outweigh their limitations and weaknesses.
Getting Started with
Candlestick Charting
Choosing candlesticks as your chart type, and really implementing candlestick
analysis, are two different things entirely. Although numerous traders now pre-
fer to view price action displayed as candlestick lines, there are still many users
who are not proficient in their interpretation. In addition, many traders fail to
take advantage of the candlestick patterns.
Some traders just feel overwhelmed by the number of patterns, along with
their unusual names, that they must commit to memory and learn to recognize.
Others may not understand the message of the emotional crowd that is evident
in the candlestick lines and patterns, and which makes them so valuable. And
still other users may not be well versed in Western technical analysis and, as a
result, fail to use candlesticks in the proper context.
Getting Started in Candlestick Charting tackles those challenges. It will
provide you a strong foundation of the following:
• The construction of the candlestick lines and how the candles can pro-
vide insights into market behavior. By using candlesticks to display
data, you should see an immediate improvement in your chart analysis
skills.
• An understanding of the psychology of investors that underlies the for-
mation of several common reversal patterns. You’ll learn how to iden-
tify those patterns, which will help you to select higher probability
trading setups and also improve the timing of your entries and exits.
• An introduction to several key Western technical analysis concepts.
This knowledge will give you a broader view of price action in contrast
to the narrower view provided by candlesticks.
• Blending candlestick charting with Western technical analysis in order
to enhance their signals. By doing so, you’ll enjoy a higher level of suc-
cess than using either Japanese candlesticks or Western technical analy-
sis in isolation.
A common complaint that I hear from traders is that they just get over-
whelmed by all there is to be learned in this business. I encourage them to re-
main steadfastly focused on the outcome of trading, which is to make money.
The outcome is not to fill your mind with an exhaustive amount of data. You

JWBK100-ch01.qxd 2/26/08 12:18 PM Page 8 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File:JW
8 CANDLESTICK CHARTING
must learn to sift through what appears to be a mountain of information and
hone in on the key areas that will achieve the outcome of increasing profits and
reducing risk. That is precisely the intention of this book. That “sifting” process
has been done for you with the goal of shortening your learning curve.
In the beginning, it is better to learn a limited number of candlestick pat-
terns, and to learn them very well, rather than trying to absorb several dozen
patterns by rote memorization. If you really dig in deep and understand the
meaning behind a pattern, and then practice identifying it using real-time
charts, that knowledge will be lasting rather than fleeting. Once you have a
strong foundation of understanding in place, you’ll find it easy to add more
candlestick patterns later if desired.
Although there is no way around putting in the time needed to learn a
new subject, there are ways to learn that can expedite the process. Getting
Started in Candlestick Charting will save you an invaluable amount of time by
putting your focus in the key areas that will have an immediate and significant
impact on your trading.
Learning a new subject, especially a technical one such as chart analysis,
takes time and practice. You may need to review this book more than once in
order to become proficient at utilizing candlestick charts. Remember that repe-
tition is the mother of skill. The benefits you’ll reap will far outweigh the initial
outlay of time and effort.
Additional Introductory Comments
The term candlestick chartingis often abbreviated to candlesticksor candles.The
terms are interchangeable and are all used throughout this book.
Mention of Western technical analysis, bar charts, or chart patterns refers
to techniques that have been used in America for many decades. Reference to
Japanese or Eastern technical analysis refers to candlestick lines and candlestick
patterns that have been used in the Far East for centuries. Whenever the term re-
versal pattern is used, it should be construed to mean a candlestick reversal pat-
tern. If a Western reversal pattern is referenced, it will be clearly stated as such.
The daily chart is the most commonly viewed time frame. Most of the
discussion and chart examples in this book refer to daily charts; therefore, the
term day, session, or trading session is often used to reference a candlestick line.
(A trading session is one day of trading from the opening bell to the closing
bell.) Candlestick charting can be used on any time frame. If a time frame other
than daily is referenced, it will be clearly noted. The term bar, period,or trading
periodmay be used in reference to a candlestick line in such cases.
The discussion and illustrations in this book focus on U.S. stocks. There-
fore, the word price is used often; for instance, to describe a price advance or a

JWBK100-ch01.qxd 2/26/08 12:18 PM Page 9 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File:JW
Introduction to Candlestick Charting 9
price decline. However, candlestick charting can be used as an analysis and tim-
ing tool in most markets. Candlesticks are commonly used in the futures mar-
kets. As long as the prices, or values, that are needed are available, a candlestick
line can be constructed. For example, the opening, high, low, and closing prices
are used to construct candle charts for stocks. Index charts, such as the Dow
Jones Industrial Average, do not have prices. Those four price points are repre-
sented by numerical values for an index.
In most charting programs, the chart can be compressed horizontally and
vertically. The level of compression may impact the look of the candlesticks. In
addition, the chart adjusts to accommodate new higher, or lower, price points.
Therefore, if you are looking back from the right edge at historical data, it may
look different than it did when it was at the right edge of the chart. Make sure
to move the chart back when analyzing candlestick lines or patterns using his-
torical data. Most mainstream charting programs allow you to back up the
chart; however, free online services may not offer this feature.
All chart examples in this book were produced with permission by TeleChart
2007®, a registered trademark of Worden Brothers, Inc., Five Oaks Office
Park, 4905 Pine Cone Drive, Durham, NC 27707; phone (800) 776-4940 or
(919) 408-0542, www.worden.com.
For ease of instruction, the terms trader and investor may be used inter-
changeably to refer to persons who execute trades, either short or long term.
However, it should be noted that trading typically applies to holding short-
term positions and investinggenerally refers to a longer-term strategy that may
include the analysis of a company’s fundamentals. The term bullsrefers to bull-
ish market participants either holding, or considering, long positions. The
term bears refers to bearish market participants holding or considering short
positions.
The term securityor securitiesmay be used generically to refer to either eq-
uities, securities or both. The term trading instrument may be used to refer to
anything traded on the markets other than stocks, for instance: bonds, curren-
cies, futures, and so on.
There are many chart examples included throughout the book. Their in-
clusion is for educational purposes only. Reference to any individual stock
should not be construed as advice to buy or sell shares of that stock.

JWBK100-ch01.qxd 2/26/08 12:18 PM Page 10 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File:J

JWBK100-ch02.qxd 2/21/08 11:55 AM Page 11 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File:J
2
Chapter
Constructing
Candlestick Lines
AWestern price bar, shown in Figure 2.1, is con-
structed using the open, high, low, and closing range
prices of a trading session. The range from high A price bar’s
to low is represented by a vertical line. The length of that range is the dif-
vertical line shows visually how far the stock was run up, ference between
and down, during the trading session. The opening price the highest and
of the session is shown as a short horizontal line drawn lowest prices
to the left of the vertical line. The closing price is drawn reached during a
to the right. given trading
A Japanese candlestick line is shown in Figure 2.2. period, for
The term candlestickis often shortened to candle. Although example, a daily
the candlestick line has a more striking appearance than session.
FIGURE 2.1 Western bar FIGURE 2.2 Japanese
candlestick
11

JWBK100-ch02.qxd 2/21/08 11:55 AM Page 12 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File:J
12 CANDLESTICK CHARTING
FIGURE 2.3 Candlestick line
the Western price bar, it is comprised of the same data. The opening, high, low,
and closing prices are plotted along a vertical line. The difference is that, rather
than showing the opening and closing prices as small horizontal lines, the area
between those two price points is boxed.
The candlestick line is so called because it actually resembles a candle. The
boxed area is referred to as the real body, or body (Figure 2.3). The thin vertical
lines drawn above and below the real body are called shadows. A shadow is
sometimes called a wick because it looks like a wick that extends out either end
of a candle.
The shadows represent the price extremes of the trading session. The verti-
cal line above the real body, referred to as the upper shadow, represents the differ-
ence between the top of the real body and the highest price of the session. The
vertical line below the real body, referred to as the lower shadow, represents the
difference between the bottom of the real body and the lowest price of the session.
If price closes higher than it opens, the session is bullish and the candle’s
real body is white (hollow), as shown in Figure 2.4. If price closes lower than it
opens, the session is bearish and the candle’s real body is black (filled), as shown
in Figure 2.5. The terms blackand bearishare used interchangeably throughout
this book, as are the terms white and bullish. Figures 2.4 and 2.5 also illustrate
how the price data of the Western bar translates to the candlestick line.
FIGURE 2.4 Bullish (white) candle FIGURE 2.5 Bearish (black) candle

JWBK100-ch02.qxd 2/21/08 11:55 AM Page 13 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File:J
Constructing Candlestick Lines 13
Smart Investor Tip
Many charting programs allow the option of changing the candlestick
colors. Some traders may prefer to use colors other than black and
white. For instance, they may choose green for bullish days and red for
bearish days.
The height and color of the candlestick’s real body tells a story about the
direction, and the momentum (or lack of), of the price move. The shadows
show how far the bulls and bears were able to drive price up and down during
the session.
In this chapter you may see mention of a certain type of candlestick pat-
tern, for example, a doji. Any pattern mentioned here is for reference only. The
patterns will be explained thoroughly in Chapter 3.
Distinguishing between the Real Body
and the Range
The Japanese tend to put a lot of emphasis on the real body—the area between
the open and the close. In Western technical analysis, the bar’s range is often
emphasized, which is the distance from the high to the low. The difference be-
tween the range and the real body is illustrated in Figure 2.6.
In Western technical analysis, a bar with a long range from high to low
may be referred to as a wide range bar, regardless of the difference between the
opening and closing prices. However, when the Japanese refer to a long or tall
candle, they are referring to the length (height) of the real body, not the range
from high to low of the session. The Japanese have specific names for candlestick
lines that include long shadows, for example, a hammer or a long-legged doji.
FIGURE 2.6 Real body versus the range

JWBK100-ch02.qxd 2/21/08 11:55 AM Page 14 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File:J
14 CANDLESTICK CHARTING
Even though the Japanese place a lot of emphasis on the candlestick line’s
real body, the shadows also provide pivotal insights when analyzing charts. In
the discussion of the candlestick reversal patterns in Chapter 3, a certain
shadow length is indicated for many of the formations.
Importance of the Open and the Close
In both Eastern and Western analysis, the opening and
closing prices of each trading day receive a lot of atten-
amateur tion and deservedly so. The daily chart is the most com-
hour
monly referenced time frame and represents a full day of
The first hour
trading activity. Emotions tend to run high during the
of the trading
first hour of the trading day (after the market open) and
day is referred
the last hour (before the market close). You’ll generally
to by many
see higher volume during those times than throughout
experienced
the remainder of the day.
traders as
There is usually a flurry of activity during the first
amateur hour.
30 to 60 minutes of trading each day. That is the time of
Amateur
day when the following occurs:
traders often
make knee-
• Traders respond to company or industry news, or
jerk reactions
global events that occurred between the prior trad-
during the
ing day’s close and the current day’s open.
opening
• Various U.S. government economic reports are released
frenzy.
on certain days each month. Many of those reports are
released prior to the market open.
• Reactions to news, events, or economic reports often provoke a strong
surge, or a gap open to the up or down side, in individual stocks and/or
market averages.
• Queued-up market orders are filled, most of which are placed by ama-
teurs after the close of the previous session.
• Traders assess the opening activity to determine their intraday strategies.
Smart Investor Tip
Only limit orders are filled outside of normal trading hours. Therefore,
market orders that are placed after the prior day’s close or before the
current day’s open are held until the opening bell.

JWBK100-ch02.qxd 2/21/08 11:55 AM Page 15 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File:J
Constructing Candlestick Lines 15
A lot of trading activity also occurs during the last 30 to 60 minutes of the
trading day. That is the time of day when the following occurs:
• Many trading strategies, especially computerized trading systems, may
call for executing “on close” orders for entering or exiting trades.
• Many breakout strategies require that price close above resistance for a
long position, or below support for a short position. This is referred to as
waiting for confirmation.Those trades are executed late in the trading day.
• Day traders close out their accounts to cash before the close of market.
Much of that activity occurs during the last half hour of trading.
• In the futures market, margin calls are determined based on the closing
price.
• A lot of “big money” moves in or out of the markets late in the day.
The close is a very important price. In fact, many traders believe it is the
most important price of the day. The close tells us the current market value of
the stock. The close is also the price most commonly used for chart analysis, to
calculate moving averages of price, and so on.
The opening and closing prices of candles on intraday charts are not as sig-
nificant as they are on the daily time frame. Intraday data, which is often called
real-time data, flows in a steady stream over the Internet throughout the day. So
with the exception of the opening price of the first intraday bar, the open of one
intraday period is usually not much different than the close of the prior period.
Smart Investor Tip
Traders who employ strategies that call for executing trades on a
closing basis usually don’t wait until the actual close of market to do
so. Waiting until the closing bell may result in the order’s not being
filled. Therefore, those who manuallyplace their orders often do so
between approximately 3:45 PMand 4:00 PMEastern time. Automatic
“on close” orders that are executed by computer are usually filled as
near as possible to the closing price.
Distinctive Candlestick Lines
Candlesticks not only make it easy to see the trend, but also the force behind
the move. Candlesticks with average to long real bodies highlight the strength
of the dominant party. A stock may be making higher highs and higher closes,

JWBK100-ch02.qxd 2/21/08 11:55 AM Page 16 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File:J
16 CANDLESTICK CHARTING
which would look bullish on a standard bar chart. However, if those higher
highs are no longer being made with strong bullish candles, and instead by
diminishing real bodies, or if long upper shadows are forming, the upswing may
be losing strength. The reverse is true for a downside move.
If you look across a chart’s canvas, you’ll see a variety of candle lines with
real bodies and shadows of differing lengths. Many of the candle lines will look
to be about average length. Some of the candle lines will have noticeably longer
or shorter real bodies than average, and some will have long or short shadows.
These are relative terms. What constitutes average, long, and short may vary
widely from one stock or index to another. As a general rule, you can look back
from the right edge of a chart at the data for the past few weeks and get an idea
of what these terms represent for that particular stock or index.
By themselves, the distinctive candle lines mentioned in the following
pages tell a story about the current psychology of investors. As you study the
reversal patterns outlined in Chapter 3, you’ll recognize that certain of these
distinctive candle lines are also components of reversal patterns.
Long Candles
If the real body of the candle line is extended, it is referred to as a long, or tall,
candle. It represents a significant price move for the session and leaves no doubt
of the bullish or bearish sentiment. Since extendedis a subjective term, as a gen-
eral rule, in order to be considered long, the length of the candle’s real body
should be about two times the length (or longer) of an average real body for
that stock or index.
A long white candle opens near the low of the session and closes near the
high, leaving little or no upper and lower shadows (Figure 2.7). It is a clear indi-
cation that the bulls were in control of the session.
One or more long bullish candles may form during an uptrend. Al-
though the candle line itself shows a strong bullish sentiment during that par-
ticular session, its location in context with the surrounding price action may
dictate whether the uptrend continues or reverses. Consider the following two
scenarios:
1. A long white candle may form after a downtrend and signal a potential
bullish reversal. One or more long bullish candles may form as a new
uptrend emerges. It is a sign of bullish interest and strength and the
uptrend may be just getting started (bullish reversal).
2. A long white candle may form near the end of an uptrend, or after a
swift upward move, and signal a potential exhaustion move (bearish re-
versal). The long bullish candle may actually be the last surge of buyers
into the stock and may be followed by a sell-off.

JWBK100-ch02.qxd 2/21/08 11:55 AM Page 17 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File:J
Constructing Candlestick Lines 17
FIGURE 2.7 Long bullish candle FIGURE 2.8 Long bearish candle
The reverse is true for a long black candle (Figure 2.8). Price opens near
the high and closes near the low, indicating strong bearish sentiment during
the session. The same two scenarios mentioned above may be applicable, but in
reverse:
1. A long black candle may form after an uptrend
and signal a potential bearish reversal. One or
more long bearish candles may form as a new
capitulation
downtrend emerges. It may be the start of a sell-
A phenomenon
off that corrects the prior uptrend.
in which
2. A long black candle may form near the end of a investors “give
downtrend, or after a sharp downside move, and up” and are
signal capitulation. A final last blast of selling willing to sell a
pressure is often followed by a bullish reversal. declining stock
at almost any
In Western analysis, the shadows would be in-
price in order to
cluded in a reference to a bar’s being long. A long bar
exit their long
would be referred to as a wide-range bar, regardless of the
positions. True
difference between the open and closing prices. In Japan-
capitulation
ese candlestick charting, reference to a long candle
involves very
should be interpreted as a long real body. Therefore, a
high volume
small-bodied candle with long shadows would qualify as
and a sharp
a wide-range bar in Western technical analysis; while to
decline as panic
the Japanese it would not qualify as a long candle be-
selling occurs.
cause its real body is small. Such a candle would be given
Capitulation is
a different name, for example, a high-wave candle.
often followed
Most long candles have short upper and lower
by a change in
shadows. Periodically you’ll see a candle that has a long
the direction of
body, and long upper and/or lower shadows (see the
the trend.
candle numbered 2 in Figure 2.14 for an example). As

JWBK100-ch02.qxd 2/21/08 11:55 AM Page 18 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File:J
18 CANDLESTICK CHARTING
long as the real body is extended, such a candle may still be considered long.
However, the smaller the shadow(s), the more obvious the domination of the
prevailing side (bulls or bears).
Short Candles
If the length of the real body is undersized, it is referred to as a short, or small,
candle (Figure 2.9). What qualifies as short is subjective; it may vary from one
stock or index to another. The real body of a short candle would be noticeably
shorter than that of an average real body when looking back over the past few
weeks of price data. A short candle will have small upper and lower shadows or,
in some cases, no shadows. If the real body is small, but there are longer upper
and/or lower shadows, it will be distinguished by a specific name, such as a
spinning topor a high-wave candle.
Unlike a long candle, which shows clear leadership for the session, a short
candle shows a lack of leadership. The stock trades in a narrow range all day
with neither the bulls nor the bears making much headway.
A short candle is a component of several bullish and bearish reversal
patterns. For example, if, after the formation of a long bullish candle, price
gaps up during the next session and forms a short candle, it is called a bear-
ish star.
In Western technical analysis, a short candle may be referred to as a narrow-
range (NR) bar.
Shaven Candles
If there is no shadow extending from either the top or bottom of the candle’s
real body, the candle is referred to as shaven or shaved. Some traders may call
these candle lines flat tops and flat bottoms. The Japanese often refer to them as
marubozu,meaning “close cropped.”
If there is no upper shadow present, regardless of whether the real body is
black or white, the candle line is said to have a shaven head (Figure 2.10). If
there is no lower shadow present, regardless of color, it has a shaven bottom
(Figure 2.11). Periodically, you will see a candle line with both a shaven head
and a shaven bottom, as shown in Figure 2.12.
FIGURE 2.9 Short candles

JWBK100-ch02.qxd 2/21/08 11:55 AM Page 19 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File:J
Constructing Candlestick Lines 19
FIGURE 2.10 Shaven head FIGURE 2.11 Shaven bottom
FIGURE 2.12 Shaven head and shaven bottom
Spinning Tops
A spinning top is a candlestick line that has a small real body. The real body can
be either black or white. According to some resources, the real body of this can-
dle line should be small in comparison toits shadows. In other words, the upper
and lower shadows are longer than the candlestick’s real body. However, accord-
ing to Steve Nison in his book Japanese Candlestick Charting Techniques (New
York Institute of Finance, 2001, p. 26): “. . . the sizes of the shadows are not im-
portant. It is the small size of the real body that makes these spinning tops.”
By Nison’s definition, a short candle (mentioned previously) would be a
spinning top, as would a candlestick line with a small real body and shadows
that are longer than the real body (Figure 2.13). Regardless of which definition
you choose to follow, the appearance of a small real body after a directional
move, or after a long candle, represents a loss of momentum. (A directional
moverefers to price moving either up or down, but not sideways.)
FIGURE 2.13 Spinning tops

JWBK100-ch02.qxd 2/21/08 11:55 AM Page 20 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File:J
20 CANDLESTICK CHARTING
When price action is primarily one-sided, the real bodies in a direc-
tional move will generally be average-sized or longer and their color will re-
flect the trend’s direction. When the bulls are dominating while a stock is
rallying, for instance, the candlesticks will be primarily white. Conversely,
when the bears are dominating during a decline, the candles will be primar-
ily black. Thus, when one or more diminishing bodies appear after a price
advance or decline, it indicates that the dominating party may be losing
control of the move. In fact, a spinning top is a component of several rever-
sal patterns. For example, the star portion of a morning or evening star is a
spinning top (or a short candle), as is the second candlestick line in a
harami.
Example
FIGURE 2.14 Spinning top formed after an upswing warning of
a loss of momentum
Source: TeleChart 2007®
Figure 2.14 shows a swift upward price move (numbered 1–4) on the
chart of James River Coal Company (JRCC) from May 17 to 21, 2007.
(continues)

JWBK100-ch02.qxd 2/21/08 11:55 AM Page 21 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File:J
Constructing Candlestick Lines 21
Example (continued)
Note that the candlestick line numbered 1 opened near its low and
closed near its high, clearly indicating the bulls’ dominance during the
session. Candlestick 2 was another strong bullish candle. It had a long
real body and closed on its high, forming a shaven head. Candlestick
3 formed another bullish real body; however, the long upper shadow
indicates that price backed off from its high before the close of the
session. That was the first sign of caution. Candlestick 4 formed a
spinning top indicating that the rally’s momentum was fading.
Price consolidated for two weeks following the spinning top. The
combinations of candles 3 and 4 create a bearish star pattern, which
you will learn about in Chapter 3.
When the real body is small and the shadows are unusually long, the can-
dle line is called a high-wavecandle (Figure 2.15). This uncommon candlestick
line is similar to the long-legged doji, which will be covered in Chapter 3. The
difference is that the doji has no real body and the high-wave candle has a
small real body. Think of the high-wave candle as a long-legged spinning top.
Its long “legs” (shadows) indicate that there was quite a power struggle be-
tween the bears and bulls during the session, with neither side emerging as the
clear victor.
A long-legged candlestick line visually shows us that there was a lot of
volatility during the session.
FIGURE 2.15 High-wave candles

JWBK100-ch02.qxd 2/21/08 11:55 AM Page 22 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File:J
22 CANDLESTICK CHARTING
Example
FIGURE 2.16 Daily high-wave candle overlaid on the 15-minute
chart demonstrates the session’s volatility
Source:TeleChart 2007®
Figure 2.16 shows a 15-minute chart of Ford Motor Company (F) on
July 26, 2007, which was a day where a high-wave candle formed on the
daily chart. The daily high-wave candle is overlaid on the intraday chart
for demonstration purposes. The dotted lines show where the open,
high, low, and closing prices from the daily chart correspond to intraday
price action. The intraday swings to the high and low points along the
vertical line resemble a roller coaster ride as the bulls and bears battled
throughout the day to maintain control. By the close of the daily
session, the result is basically a stalemate.
Candle Lines Evolve throughout
the Session
Viewing a closed candlestick line on a daily chart tells you how the day’s battle
ended. For instance, if the candlestick has a white real body, you know that

JWBK100-ch02.qxd 2/21/08 11:55 AM Page 23 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File:J
Constructing Candlestick Lines 23
the bulls had control by the close of the session. However, that does not tell
you if the bulls had control during the entire session. If you want to see the
details of the day’s battle, you’ll need to view the price action on an intraday
chart.
Example
FIGURE 2.17 Shifting from a daily chart down to an intraday time
frame defines how the battle between the bears and bulls unfolded
throughout the session
Source: TeleChart 2007®
Figure 2.17 shows a chart of ACA Capital Holdings Inc (ACA) on
August 13, 2007. On the left side you can see how the daily bar
looked. It was a long white candle with a very small upper shadow.
One might think that after opening at the low (a shaven bottom) the
bulls just ran the stock up all day long. That was not the case. By
viewing the 15-minute chart on the right, you can see the intraday
activity. The up and down lines show the price trajectory throughout
the day. The bulls were in charge for the first 90 minutes of trading.
The bears took over for the next few hours, reversing the morning’s
rally almost entirely. The bulls then took over again and ran price back
up to close near the high.

JWBK100-ch02.qxd 2/21/08 11:55 AM Page 24 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File:J
24 CANDLESTICK CHARTING
After a stock opens for trading, the opening price of the daily candlestick
line is set for the day. The open cannot change; however, the high, low, and
closing prices are subject to change throughout the session. A candlestick line
evolves throughout the trading session as buy and sell orders are filled. By the
close of the session, the daily candlestick line that you see may have looked sig-
nificantly different at intervals during the session.
Smart Investor Tip
The closing price is called the last until the actual close of market.
Using the ACA example again from Figure 2.17, let’s take a look at how
the daily chart would have evolved. Figure 2.18 depicts the change in shape
of the daily candlestick line as the bulls and bears jockeyed for control throughout
the session. When price was run up during the first 90 minutes, at the high of
the session the daily bar would have been a long white candle with a shaven
head and bottom. As the stock started to sell off, an upper shadow began to
emerge. At the point where the bears had pushed price back to near the low of
the session, the daily bar would have had a long upper shadow and a small
white real body. As the bulls took over again, the real body became larger and
the upper shadow became shorter. By the close of the session, all that remained
of that long upper shadow from earlier in the session was its small tip between
the close and the high.
If, at the close of market, a daily candlestick line shows a small real body
near the high of the session with a long lower shadow, at some point during the
session it had a long bearish real body. Buyers stepped in, putting upward pres-
sure on price, causing the once bearish real body to morph into a long lower
shadow (see Figure 2.19).
If, at the close of market, the daily candlestick line has both an upper and
a lower shadow and a small real body, at some time during the session the bar
FIGURE 2.18 Daily bar changes shape throughout the session

JWBK100-ch02.qxd 2/21/08 11:55 AM Page 25 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File:J
Constructing Candlestick Lines 25
FIGURE 2.19 Long lower shadow FIGURE 2.20 Spinning top had
was previously a bearish candle both a longer bearish and bullish
real body during the session
was more bullish and more bearish but closed near the middle of the range (see
Figure 2.20). By the end of the session, the candlestick line formed a spinning top.
The same concept of drilling down from the daily bar to intraday time
frames to see the detail can be applied to higher time frames. For example, a
trader analyzing a weekly chart could shift down to the daily time frame to see
the intraweek price action. To see even more detail, he could shift down to the
hourly time frame.
Time Frames
The daily chart is the most widely viewed time frame. However, Japanese candle-
stick charting is applicable to all time frames. Investors who hold their positions
long term may use candlestick charting on weekly and daily time frames. Swing
traders, who hold for shorter periods, may use candlesticks on daily and hourly
time frames. Day traders may employ them on the lower intraday time frames.
Intraday Charts
Candlestick lines can be constructed for intraday charts ranging from 1-minute
to hourly. If you were to look at an hourly chart, for example, the opening price
would be the first price of that hour. The highest and lowest prices reached dur-
ing that hour would define the high and low of the candlestick line. The close
would represent the final price of the hourly trading period.
Candlestick patterns may become less obvious on low intraday time
frames, such as 1- or 5-minute charts. With the exception of the open of the first
intraday bar, there is usually not much difference between the closing price of
one bar and the opening price of the next. As such, certain candlestick patterns
may not be as prevalent and some may not be as well defined on intraday charts,
such as those that have a gap between the bodies of two consecutive bars. When

JWBK100-ch02.qxd 2/21/08 11:55 AM Page 26 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File:J
26 CANDLESTICK CHARTING
distinctive candle lines and patterns form on intraday charts, their interpretation
is the same as when they form on daily and higher time frames.
Recall from previous discussion the important events that occur during
the opening and closing hours of a trading day. Those same events will not be
applicable near the opening and closing times for each intraday period. Be-
tween the close of one day and the open of the next trading day, enough time
lapses for traders to digest news and other events that happened overnight or
over a weekend. Conversely, after the first intraday bar on lower time frames has
formed, there is no time lapse between the close of one bar and the open of the
next bar. The candlestick lines are formed from a steady stream of data. There is
not sufficient time between each bar for traders to assimilate news or change
their outlook. Therefore, there will not be as much emphasis on the opening
and closing prices from one bar to the next on intraday charts.
Weekly Charts
If you are analyzing candlestick lines on a weekly chart, the open will be the
opening price of the first trading day of the week. The high and low will be
the highest and lowest prices achieved during the trading week. The close will
be the closing price on the last trading day of the week.
It must be noted that some charting programs provide weekly data in the
form of a “rolling” week. In other words, if you view a weekly chart on any
given day, you are viewing the price action for the last five trading days. That
means if you are viewing the weekly chart on a Wednesday, you are seeing the
price action from Wednesday of the prior week to Wednesday of the current
week. Some charting services may provide a standard week of Monday through
Friday. In that case, if you view a weekly chart on a Wednesday, you are seeing
price action from Monday through Wednesday of the current week. In either
case, you won’t know until the close on the last trading day of the week how the
weekly candlestick line will appear.
The rolling week can be problematic in some cases because the current
week’s price bar, as well as the historical weekly bars, will adjust daily as the
week unfolds. If your charting service utilizes a rolling week, be cautious about
analyzing historical weekly charts mid-week because the candlesticks may look
different than they would if you were to analyze them after Friday’s close.

JWBK100-ch03.qxd 2/21/08 8:57 AM Page 27 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File:JW
3
Chapter
Candlestick Reversal
Patterns
In the previous chapter, you were shown how the candlestick line is constructed.
The term candlestick lineis a nonspecific term used to refer to any single can-
dlestick on a chart. There are certain candlestick lines, or combinations of lines,
that have specific names and criteria that identify them. They are referred to as
candlestick patterns. A candlestick pattern may consist of a unique single line, such
as a doji; or it may include two, three, or more candlestick lines. For example, an
evening star pattern includes three candlestick lines in its formation. Candlestick
patterns that provide reversal signals are the focus of this chapter.
Some traders may elect to simply make a shift to displaying data as can-
dlestick lines instead of bar charts. That action alone should improve their
chart analysis since candlesticks make it quicker and easier to interpret price ac-
tion. However, most traders who are interested in adding candlestick charting
to their technical arsenal will choose to delve deeper into the study of candle-
sticks by learning some, or all, of the candlestick patterns.
There are texts available by other fine authors on candlestick charting
(some are listed in the bibliography at the back of the book). Depending on the
resource you consult, anywhere from 55 to 68 candlestick patterns may be de-
scribed. That includes reversal patterns, continuation patterns, and some dis-
tinctive variations of those patterns. Some of the patterns occur frequently,
while others are rare.
I have found, through my own experience when I first began learning the
candlestick patterns, and confirmed through discussions with dozens of my stu-
dents, that trying to learn too many patterns at once can be counterproductive. Af-
ter learning about half of those 55 to 68 patterns, it all starts to become sort of a
blur. The result may be some knowledge of a lot of patterns, but a lack of thorough
understanding and comprehension that allows you to put them all right to work.
27

JWBK100-ch03.qxd 2/21/08 8:57 AM Page 28 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File:JW
28 CANDLESTICK CHARTING
In Getting Started in Candlestick Charting, the number of patterns, along
with distinctive variations of certain patterns, will be limited to approximately
20 of the most common and best-known reversal patterns. The rare patterns are
excluded, with the exception of a few that are distinct variations of commonly
formed patterns. For example, a pattern called a gravestone doji is mentioned;
however, it is just a variation of a doji. In addition, continuation patterns are
not included. There is a reason the focus will be confined to reversal patterns.
According to Gregory L. Morris, in his book Candlestick Charting Explained
(McGraw-Hill, 2006, p.312): “Reversal patterns occur about 40 times more often
than continuation patterns.” He goes on to say: “In this analysis, there were 65
reversal patterns and 23 continuation patterns, which make reversal patterns
account for about 74% of all patterns.”
Equally important, if not more so, to learning candlestick patterns is an
understanding of how to actually put them to work in the context of the
broader picture. That will be the primary focus of the chapters in Part II.
I believe that those of you who are new to this field of technical analysis will
appreciate the “learn less, but better” approach presented in this book. And once
you have that strong foundation in place, it will be easy for you to learn additional
patterns, should you choose to expand your study of candlestick charting.
Common Reversal Patterns
The candlestick patterns discussed in this chapter are listed in Table 3.1 As the
table illustrates, each bearish reversal pattern has a bullish counterpart. The pat-
terns of the same name, for example, the engulfing pattern, can have either
bearish or bullish implications, depending on whether the pattern forms after
price has been rising or falling, respectively. There are also variations of some of
the patterns presented along with the primary pattern descriptions.
TABLE 3.1 Common Candlestick Reversal Pattern
Bearish Pattern Bullish Pattern
Hanging Man Hammer
Shooting Star Inverted hammer
Doji (northen) Doji (southern)
Dark Cloud Cover Piercing Pattern
Bearish Engulfing Bullish Engulfing
Bearish Harami Bullish Harami
Evening Star Morning Star

JWBK100-ch03.qxd 2/21/08 8:57 AM Page 29 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File:JW
Candlestick Reversal Patterns 29
The reversal patterns all share one common trait:
they must follow a directional move. Bearish reversal
patterns form after an upward move. They are consid- directional
move
ered to be bearish because they may be followed by a
shift in price direction from up to down, or from up to A price move
lateral (sideways). Bullish patterns form after a price de- that is either
cline and may be followed by a change from down to up up or down,
or from down to lateral. but not
Don’t let the idea of having to learn several patterns sideways.
with their unusual names dissuade you. It is necessary to
move past that and instead focus on what is important—
to really understand what the candle formations tell you about the current psy-
chology of market participants. Once you understand the value of the patterns,
I’m sure you’ll agree it is worth the time and effort.
Stocks and markets may vary in their price movement, as well as their
volatility. Therefore, you may discover that some patterns occur more or less
frequently in one market than another or from one stock to another.
Pattern Format
A standard format is followed for each pattern whenever possible in order to
maintain consistency and ensure that each pattern is thoroughly explained.
That format includes the following:
• The price action that precedes the pattern: either a price advance or a
price decline.
• A description of the pattern and its criteria.
• An illustration of the pattern. Rising or falling lines will be displayed in
the illustrations prior to the pattern example to indicate whether it
forms after an advance (bearish pattern) or a decline (bullish pattern).
• The psychology behind the pattern’s formation.
• A chart that contains a real-world example of the pattern shown in the
context of the surrounding chart landscape.
• Variations of the pattern where applicable.
• A helpful hint for remembering the pattern’s name where applicable.
The order in which the patterns are presented does not dictate their sig-
nificance as reversal patterns.
For your convenience, a brief summary and illustration of each pattern is
included in Appendix A for quick reference.

JWBK100-ch03.qxd 2/21/08 8:57 AM Page 30 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File:JW
30 CANDLESTICK CHARTING
Nonideal Patterns and Variations
The illustrations that accompany the reversal pattern descriptions were drawn in
order to show ideal examples. The purpose of providing textbook examples is so
that you have a good benchmark from which to work. Although you will see
some ideal patterns when you begin analyzing charts, you should also expect to
see plenty of less-than-perfect formations. That does not mean they are not pow-
erful. Even nonideal versions can provide important clues about shifts in investor
psychology.
In the chart examples presented throughout the book, you’ll view the can-
dlestick patterns in the context of the broader chart rather than in isolation.
That will give you a feel for their real-world applications.
For some patterns, an acceptable variation that differs slightly from the
standard criteria will be shown. For instance, the ideal dark cloud cover, which
is a bearish reversal pattern, will gap up open above the prior candle’s high.
However, if it only gaps open above the prior candle’s close, it is an acceptable
variation, although not quite as strong in some cases.
Just like most anything in technical analysis, there is also some subjectiv-
ity involved. One trader may look at a shooting star pattern and dismiss it be-
cause the upper shadow is only about one and a half times the length of the real
body rather than two or more times the length as dictated by the criteria. An-
other trader may say that is trivial and it is long enough to generate a signal.
Some of the nonideal patterns and variations are just as strong as ideal
patterns when viewed in the context of the bigger picture. For instance, if a
mediocre pattern forms at a strong support or resistance area, it is still likely to
follow through. That’s where blending candlesticks with Western technical
analysis can be especially helpful.
In summary, try not to be too rigid in your expectations or exclude valid
signals that are not perfect setups, or you may miss many good trading oppor-
tunities and important warning signs.
Umbrella Lines: Hanging Man
and Hammer
The Japanese refer to this formation as an umbrella line because it resembles an
umbrella (see Figures 3.1 and 3.2). However, you’ll rarely hear the term umbrella
line passed around in conversations among traders in the United States. These
patterns are simply referred to as the hanging manand the hammer.
These two reversal patterns have the same shape. The factor that differen-
tiates one pattern from the other is whether it forms after a price advance
(a bearish hanging man) or a price decline (a bullish hammer).

JWBK100-ch03.qxd 2/21/08 8:57 AM Page 31 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File:JW
Candlestick Reversal Patterns 31
FIGURE 3.1 Umbrella lines: No FIGURE 3.2 Umbrella lines: Small
upper shadow upper shadow
Pattern Description and Criteria
The hanging man and hammer are single-line candlestick patterns. They both
include the following criteria:
• A small real body forms at, or very near, the upper end (the high) of the
candlestick’s range.
• The color of the small real body is not significant; it can be either black
or white.
• The long lower shadow is typically two or more times the length of the
real body.
• There should be no upper shadow (Figure 3.1) or a very small one
(Figure 3.2). Price must close near the high of the range.
The long lower shadow indicates that the stock declined sharply during
the trading session. In fact, at the time price was at the low, the candle had a
long bearish real body with a shaven bottom. (Recall the discussion at the end
of Chapter 2 about how the candlestick line changes
shape throughout the session.) The bulls were able to
grab control from the bears and push price back up to
rally
close near the high by the end of the session.
A fairly sharp
The smaller the real body, the shorter the upper
rise after a
shadow, and the longer the lower shadow, the more con-
decline or a
sequential the pattern.
period of
consolidation.
Hanging Man
Demand
If an umbrella line forms after a price advance, it is called overwhelms
a hanging man and it is a bearish signal. A hanging man supply
may appear after a short-term upward move, but it is resulting in a
more significant if it appears after a long or sharp rally or rise in value.
at an all-time high for the stock or index.

JWBK100-ch03.qxd 2/21/08 8:57 AM Page 32 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File:JW
32 CANDLESTICK CHARTING
FIGURE 3.3 Hanging man FIGURE 3.4 Hanging man
(black body) (white body)
Although it does not matter if the small body is
black (Figure 3.3) or white (Figure 3.4), a black body in-
sell-off dicates that, even though the bulls did take control back
Rapid selling from the bears intraday, they were not able to close the
of a stock or session positive. However, that does not necessarily
other trading mean that a bearish close will result in a higher likeli-
instrument. hood of a top reversal than a bullish close.
Supply
overwhelms Pattern Psychology The bulls have been benefiting
demand from a price advance. Then a sharp sell-off occurs during
resulting in a the hanging man session, which gives them cause for
decline in concern. Some traders who already held long positions
value. prior to the hanging man may use the intraday recovery
to take profits near the high. Others will tighten their
stop loss orders in order to protect the gains achieved
during the prior run-up. Traders who entered new long
positions during the hanging man session may be
long (long
position) nervous. Some will have negative positions already,
depending on where they entered the trade. If price
The purchase
declines after the hanging man pattern, many traders will
of a stock or
be forced out of their long positions. Those holding short
other trading
positions will be on the right side of the market, at least
instrument
temporarily.
with the
A long lower shadow after an upward move may be
expectation
seen as a positive development because it shows that the
that the price
bulls regained control during the session. Therefore, it is
will rise.
usually best to wait for more bearish confirmation before

JWBK100-ch03.qxd 2/21/08 8:57 AM Page 33 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File:JW
Candlestick Reversal Patterns 33
entering a short position based solely on a hanging man
signal. To confirm the signal, the stock should trade be-
low the hanging man’s real body the following session, short
(short
and ideally it should close below it.
position)
The sale of a
Chart Example Figure 3.5 shows a daily chart of
stock or other
Autozone Inc. (AZO). Three bearish hanging man
trading
patterns with short upper shadows formed within a five-
instrument
week period. The first pattern (1) formed on June 5,
with the
2007, after a several-day price advance off the May low.
expectation
It was confirmed the following day with a lower close.
that the price
The uptrend stalled for two more days before moving
will decline.
higher. The second hanging man (2) formed on June 19
after a few weeks of uptrend. The ascent of the uptrend
was fairly steep and vulnerable to profit-taking. The hanging man’s signal was
confirmed the following session with a lower close. Price declined for several
days. The third pattern (3) formed on July 6 and was confirmed the following
session with a lower close. It became part of a larger bearish Western double top
pattern that was created by the parallel highs in June and July. Price subsequently
retraced a significant percentage of the prior trend.
FIGURE 3.5 Bearish hanging man patterns formed after upward moves
Source:TeleChart 2007®

JWBK100-ch03.qxd 2/21/08 8:57 AM Page 34 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File:JW
34 CANDLESTICK CHARTING
The real bodies of the hanging man patterns labeled
2 and 3 were so small that they could also be interpreted
double top as doji. Regardless, the signal is a bearish one. Doji are
A common discussed later in this chapter. (Note: The plural of doji is
bearish reversal also doji.)
pattern that
occurs when Helpful Hint This pattern resembles a hanging man
two prominent, with his head at the top and his body hanging below.
parallel (or You may remember playing the drawing game called
nearly parallel) “hangman” as a child.
peaks form in
an uptrend.
Hammer
The pattern
resembles the If an umbrella line forms after a price decline, it is called
letter “M.” It is a a hammer.The hammer is the bullish counterpart of the
valid reversal hanging man. The hammer is a strong reversal signal. It
pattern when it is meaningful whether it forms after a short-term down-
is confirmed by side move or after a more significant decline.
a close below Although it does not matter if the small real body
the middle of is black (Figure 3.6) or white (Figure 3.7), a white body
the “M.” indicates that not only did the bulls wrestle control away
from the bears, but they were able to close the session
slightly positive. However, that does not necessarily
mean that a bullish close will result in a higher likelihood of a bottom reversal
than a bearish close.
Pattern Psychology The trend has been down when a sharp sell-off
occurs, which, at first, further emboldens the bears. However, when the
FIGURE 3.6 Hammer (black body) FIGURE 3.7 Hammer (white body)

JWBK100-ch03.qxd 2/21/08 8:57 AM Page 35 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File:JW
Candlestick Reversal Patterns 35
strong intraday reversal transpires, and price closes
near its high, the remaining bears may be worrying
stop-loss over their positions. The long lower shadow indicates
order that bulls are stepping into long positions. Some
An order traders who have short positions will either cover
placed with a them or tighten their stop-loss orders in order to
broker to exit protect the gains achieved during the prior down-
an open swing. If price continues to rise following the hammer
position if a pattern, more traders will be forced to cover their
stock reaches short positions. Since short covering equals buying,
a certain price. and bulls will also be buying, it provides fuel for a
The order is rally.
intended to It is not necessary to wait for further confirma-
limit the loss tion before entering a long position based on the ham-
an investor mer’s signal. For traders who feel more comfortable
takes if the doing so, though, confirmation occurs when price
stock moves trades above the hammer’s real
against him. body, and ideally it should close
Stop-loss above it. double
orders become bottom
market orders Chart Example Figure 3.8 A common
when shows a daily chart of Pediatrix bullish reversal
triggered. Medical Group Inc. (PDX). A pattern that
hammer with no upper shadow occurs when
formed on June 8, 2007, following two prominent,
a sharp decline during the prior parallel (or
three sessions. The long lower nearly parallel)
shadow of the hammer was about bottoms form
cover three times the length of its small in a downtrend.
(buy-to-cover)
real body, indicating a strong The pattern
An order bounce intraday. Price turned up resembles the
placed with a over the next several days, but then letter “W.” It is a
broker to exit rolled over and tested the hammer’s valid reversal
a short low as support on June 25. The pattern when it
position. successful test of support at the is confirmed by
hammer’s low (dotted line) set up a close above
a larger Western double bottom reversal pattern. the middle of
the “W.”
Helpful Hint This pattern resembles a hammer with
its long handle and its head set crosswise at the top. Think of it as the stock
“hammering out a bottom.”

JWBK100-ch03.qxd 2/21/08 8:57 AM Page 36 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File:JW
36 CANDLESTICK CHARTING
FIGURE 3.8 Bullish hammer formed after a price decline
Source: TeleChart 2007®
Shooting Star and Inverted Hammer
The long shadow of the shooting star and inverted hammer patterns points in
the opposite direction to that of the hanging man and hammer. Thus, they are
inverted umbrella lines. The factor that differentiates one pattern from the
other is whether it forms after a price advance (a bearish shooting star) or a
price decline (a bullish inverted hammer).
Pattern Description and Criteria
The shooting star and the inverted hammer are single-line candlestick patterns.
They both include the following criteria:
• A small real body forms at, or very near, the bottom (the low) of the
candlestick’s range.
• The color of the small body is not significant; it can be either black or
white.
• The long upper shadow is typically two or more times the length of the
real body.
• There should be no lower shadow (Figure 3.9) or a very small one
(Figure 3.10). Price must close near the low of the range.

JWBK100-ch03.qxd 2/21/08 8:57 AM Page 37 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File:JW
Candlestick Reversal Patterns 37
FIGURE 3.9 Inverted umbrella FIGURE 3.10 Inverted umbrella
lines: no lower shadow lines: small lower shadow
The long upper shadow indicates that the stock rallied strongly during the
trading session. In fact, at the time price was at the high of the session, the
candle had a long bullish real body with a shaven top. The bears were then
able to force price back down to close near the low by the end of the session.
The smaller the real body, the shorter the lower shadow, and the longer
the upper shadow, the more consequential the pattern.
Shooting Star
If the inverted umbrella type of pattern forms after a price advance, it is called a
shooting star, and it has bearish implications.
Although it does not matter if the small body is black (Figure 3.11) or
white (Figure 3.12), a black body indicates that not only did the rally fail but
the bears were able to close the session slightly negative. However, that does not
necessarily mean that a bearish close will result in a higher likelihood of a top
reversal than a bullish close.
FIGURE 3.11 Shooting star FIGURE 3.12 Shooting star
(black body) (white body)

JWBK100-ch03.qxd 2/21/08 8:57 AM Page 38 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File:JW
38 CANDLESTICK CHARTING
An ideal shooting star will have a real body that gaps up open away from
the prior real body like the other star patterns discussed later in this chapter. It
is acceptable, though, for the real body of the shooting star to overlap the prior
candle’s real body.
Pattern Psychology Price has been rising and another strong rally occurs after
the open, encouraging the bulls. That bullish sentiment is challenged later
during the session as price reverses direction intraday. Traders who had just
entered new long positions during the shooting star session will feel even more
anxious as many of them watch their trades turn negative. By the close of
market, the day’s rally has been erased as price closes at, or near, the low of the
session. If price continues to decline following the shooting star’s signal, many
bulls will exit their long positions and more bears will establish short positions.
It is best to wait for confirmation before entering a short position based
solely on a shooting star signal. To confirm the signal, price should trade below
the shooting star’s real body, and ideally it should close below it.
Chart Example Figure 3.13 shows a daily chart of MGP Ingredients Inc.
(MGPI). On March 30, 2007, price gapped up open from the prior day’s
close, leaving a gap between the two real bodies and forming a shooting star
FIGURE 3.13 Shooting star patterns formed after upward moves
Source: TeleChart 2007®

JWBK100-ch03.qxd 2/21/08 8:57 AM Page 39 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File:JW
Candlestick Reversal Patterns 39
with no lower shadow. (The prior session was a hanging man, although its
lower shadow was not quite twice the length of its real body.) Price declined
for several days following the shooting star’s bearish reversal signal. Price
moved up again, ending with another shooting star with a shaven bottom on
April 17. Its real body formed within the prior bar’s real body, so there was no
gap up at the open like the first shooting star. However, it did meet the
primary criteria for the pattern so its reversal signal should not be ignored,
especially because it formed at resistance. The high of the first shooting star’s
upper shadow provided resistance for the second shooting star. Although
price broke through that resistance intraday on April 17, it did not close
above it. Price reversed direction again after the emergence of the second
shooting star.
Helpful Hint The shooting star pattern looks like a star falling down from
the sky with its long tail trailing behind it.
Inverted Hammer
If an inverted umbrella type of pattern forms after a price decline, it is called an
inverted hammer.The inverted hammer is the bullish counterpart of the shoot-
ing star.
Although it does not matter if the small body is black (Figure 3.14) or
white (Figure 3.15), a white body indicates that the bulls were able to rally the
stock intraday and close the session slightly positive. However, that does not
necessarily mean that a bullish close will result in a higher likelihood of a bot-
tom reversal than a bearish close.
FIGURE 3.14 Inverted hammer FIGURE 3.15 Inverted hammer
(black body) (white body)

JWBK100-ch03.qxd 2/21/08 8:57 AM Page 40 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File:JW
40 CANDLESTICK CHARTING
Pattern Psychology Price has been declining so the strong rally that occurs
intraday will make some bears nervous. Even though the stock fell back and
closed near the low, it is now evident that the bulls are showing interest. Astute
traders may use the information the inverted hammer provides as motivation to
cover their short positions. If price moves higher following the inverted
hammer, a short-covering rally may develop.
A long upper shadow after a decline may be viewed as a negative develop-
ment because the bulls were not able to sustain the strong rally that occurred in-
traday. Therefore, it may be best to wait for more bullish confirmation before
entering a long position based solely on a signal from an inverted hammer. To
confirm the signal, price should trade above the inverted hammer’s real body
the following session, and ideally it should close above it.
Chart Example Figure 3.16 shows a daily chart of Limited Brands Inc.
(LTD). The long lower shadow that formed on May 15, 2007, was the first sign
that the decline may be losing its force. The next morning price gapped down
open and then rallied, but closed the session back near the low, leaving a bullish
inverted hammer. The hammer that formed during the following session held
support at the inverted hammer’s low and closed above the inverted hammer’s
real body (confirmation). It was followed the next session by a strong white
candle, which showed that the bulls had arrived in force.
FIGURE 3.16 Bullish inverted hammer formed after a price decline
Source: TeleChart 2007®

JWBK100-ch03.qxd 2/21/08 8:57 AM Page 41 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File:JW
Candlestick Reversal Patterns 41
Doji
Even though it is comprised of only a single candlestick line, the doji can be a
very significant signal, especially if it forms at a top. The doji is probably the
most commonly referenced candlestick pattern. It gets so much attention that
some traders give it too much credit. Although its signal should not be ignored,
its importance should not be overstated either. A doji should be considered a
strong warning, but not a guarantee, that price may change direction.
Pattern Description and Criteria
The doji includes the following criteria:
• The pattern has no real body. The opening and closing prices are ex-
actly the same, or nearly the same, and are plotted as a horizontal line
that intersects the vertical range, as shown in Figure 3.17.
• The length of the upper and lower shadows can vary.
Although an ideal doji is formed during a trading session in which the
opening and closing prices are exactly the same, that scenario is not very com-
mon. If the open and close are nearly the same, it is still considered a doji. If the
real body is very small, it is sometimes referred to as a near-doji(Figure 3.18). It
is important to note that “nearly the same” in reference to the open and closing
prices is a relative concept.
Example
If the opening and closing prices are 5 cents apart, that would not be
much difference for a stock trading at $50. However, it would result in a
larger real body on a stock trading at $5. A higher-priced stock, say one
trading at $150, may have a difference of 20 cents or more between the
open and close and still look like a doji, or a near-doji.
FIGURE 3.17 Doji (no body) FIGURE 3.18 Near-doji (very small body)

JWBK100-ch03.qxd 2/21/08 8:57 AM Page 42 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File:JW
42 CANDLESTICK CHARTING
FIGURE 3.19 Northern doji FIGURE 3.20 Southern doji
(bearish) (bullish)
A doji that appears after an upward move should be viewed as a bearish
signal. Its signal is stronger if it follows one or more long bullish candles. A doji
that forms after a price advance is more potent and reliable than one that forms
in a declining market. Steve Nison refers to a doji that forms after a price ad-
vance as a northern doji(Figure 3.19).
A doji that appears after a downward move may also result in a change in
price direction; however, doji tend to lose some of their potency in a declining
market. It is usually best to wait for more confirmation when a doji forms in a
downtrend before entering a long position based solely on its signal. Nison refers
to a doji that forms at the end of a price decline as a southern doji(Figure 3.20).
Pattern Psychology
After a directional price move, a candlestick with no real body forms, represent-
ing equilibrium between the bulls and bears. The doji represents indecision,
which is not likely to sustain a move. Its appearance should be considered a
warning that a change in the trend’s direction may occur.
Chart Example
Figure 3.21 shows a daily chart of Marchex Inc. (MCHX). On June 7, 2007, a
bullish southern doji formed after a downward move. Price consolidated for
several days using the doji’s low as support (dotted line) before rising back up to
test the May high. On June 26, a bearish northern doji formed after the upward
move. Price consolidated for three more days, using the doji’s high as resistance
(dotted line), before turning back down and filling the gap.
Helpful Hint
A doji resembles a cross.

JWBK100-ch03.qxd 2/21/08 8:57 AM Page 43 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File:JW
Candlestick Reversal Patterns 43
FIGURE 3.21 Northern and southern doji
Source: TeleChart 2007®
Doji Is a Component of Other Patterns
A doji can stand on its own merit, but it also is a component of other candle-
stick patterns. If a doji appears as part of another formation, it strengthens the
signal. Some examples include the following:
• If the middle bar of a three-candlestick evening star is a doji, the pat-
tern is more ominous. In that case, it would be referred to as an evening
doji star.
• If a doji appears as the second candle in a harami, it will increase
that pattern’s implications and would be referred to as a harami
cross.
Distinctive Doji
A doji may be referred to by a nickname, depending on the length of the shad-
ows and where the opening and closing prices appear along the vertical line that
forms the candlestick’s range.

JWBK100-ch03.qxd 2/21/08 8:57 AM Page 44 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File:JW
44 CANDLESTICK CHARTING
FIGURE 3.22 Long-legged doji (rickshaw man)
Long-Legged Doji
A doji that has very long upper and lower shadows is called a long-legged doji
(Figure 3.22). It may also be referred to as a rickshaw man.
Pattern Psychology The long upper shadow indicates that the stock rallied at
some point during the session when the high was established. The long lower
shadow indicates that the stock also sold off sharply at some point during the
same session when the low was established. By the close of market, neither the
bulls nor the bears could claim victory. According to Steve Nison, in his book
Japanese Candlestick Charting Techniques(New York Institute of Finance, 2001,
p. 162): “These long shadows hint, as the Japanese say, ‘the market has lost its
sense of direction.’”
The long-legged pattern illustrates a volatile struggle between the bulls and
bears during the session. If you view an intraday chart of the day’s price action,
it may look somewhat like a roller coaster ride. Refer back to Figure 2.16 in
Chapter 2 to see an example of how a long-legged candle might look intraday.
Chart Example Figure 3.23 shows a daily chart of Infosys Technologies
(INFY). A high-wave candle formed on March 30, 2007. The low of the high-
wave candle provided support for the next day’s session and a reversal followed.
The high-wave formation is a long-legged spinning top. Another long-legged
pattern formed on April 13. It had no real body; therefore, it was a long-legged
doji. The high of the long-legged doji provided resistance during the next two
trading sessions and a decline followed.
Gravestone Doji
When the horizontal line representing the opening and closing prices
forms at, or very near, the bottom of the vertical line (the low of the session),

JWBK100-ch03.qxd 2/21/08 8:57 AM Page 45 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File:JW
Candlestick Reversal Patterns 45
FIGURE 3.23 Long-legged doji compared to a high-wave candle
Source: TeleChart 2007®
with a long upper shadow, it is a distinctive variation called a gravestone doji
(Figure 3.24).
When it forms after a price advance, the gravestone doji resembles a
shooting star. If it forms after a price decline, it resembles an inverted hammer.
The difference is that the shooting star and inverted hammer patterns both
have small real bodies at, or near, the lows of their sessions. The gravestone doji
has no real body because the opening and closing prices are the same, or very
close to the same. The presence of a doji produces a stronger signal. As is usually
the case with a doji, the gravestone pattern is typically stronger at market tops
than at market bottoms.
Pattern Psychology The long upper shadow indicates that during the session
the market rallied strongly. At the time price was at the high of the session,
FIGURE 3.24 Gravestone doji

JWBK100-ch03.qxd 2/21/08 8:57 AM Page 46 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File:JW
46 CANDLESTICK CHARTING
there was no upper shadow. The long white candle had a shaven top (and a
shaven bottom if there is no lower shadow). By the end of the session the bears
were successful in beating the bulls back to the same point where the session
had started. The longer the upper shadow, the stronger the signal. The Japanese
say that the gravestone doji represents the gravestones of those who died
defending their territory.
Chart Example Figure 3.25 shows a daily chart of Vulcan Materials Co.
(VMC). On April 30, 2007, the stock gapped up open after a price advance and
rallied strongly during the session. By the session’s close, price had fallen all
the way back to the low, leaving a very long upper shadow. Such a long upper
shadow after a price advance must be interpreted as a bearish signal. You may
also have noticed that price gapped down the following session, leaving a void
on the chart on both sides of the gravestone doji. When price gaps up and then
down again in this fashion, it forms a bearish Western reversal pattern called an
island top.Gaps are covered in more detail in Part II.
Helpful Hint An easy way to remember this doji’s nickname is by noting that
the long upper shadow looks like the upright part of a gravestone and the
horizontal line looks like the gravestone’s base.
FIGURE 3.25 Gravestone doji formed after a price advance
Source: TeleChart 2007®

JWBK100-ch03.qxd 2/21/08 8:57 AM Page 47 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File:JW
Candlestick Reversal Patterns 47
FIGURE 3.26 Dragonfly doji
Dragonfly Doji
When the horizontal line representing the opening and closing prices forms at, or
very near, the top of the vertical line (the high of the session), with a long lower
shadow, it is a distinctive variation referred to as a dragonfly doji(Figure 3.26).
The long lower shadow of the dragonfly doji points the opposite direction
of the gravestone doji’s shadow. When it forms at the end of a price advance,
the dragonfly doji resembles a hanging man. If it forms after a price decline, it
resembles a hammer. The difference is that the hanging man and hammer pat-
terns both have small real bodies at, or near, the highs of their sessions. The
dragonfly doji has no real body because the opening and closing prices are the
same, or very close to the same.
Pattern Psychology The long lower shadow indicates that during the session
the market sold off sharply. At the time price was at the low of the session, the
long black candle had a shaven bottom (and shaven top if there was no upper
shadow). By the end of the session, the bulls were successful in pushing price
back up to the same point where the session had started.
Chart Example Figure 3.27 shows a daily chart of Wheeling-Pittsburgh
Corp. (WPSC). On July 27, 2007, a dragonfly doji formed after a sharp
decline back to support at the June low (dotted line). Although doji are
typically better at calling tops than bottoms, in a situation like this where the
doji formed at prior support, it increased the likelihood that price would
change direction after the doji. The very long lower shadow shows the covering
of short positions by bears and the willingness of the bulls to step into long
positions at that support level. Note also in this example that a hammer formed
two days prior to the dragonfly doji; however, it failed to confirm with a higher
close the next session.
Helpful Hint An easy way to remember this doji’s nickname is by noting that
the long lower shadow resembles a dragonfly’s long body. The horizontal line
looks like its outstretched wings, which are closer to the top of its body.

JWBK100-ch03.qxd 2/21/08 8:57 AM Page 48 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File:JW
48 CANDLESTICK CHARTING
FIGURE 3.27 Dragonfly doji formed at support
Source: TeleChart 2007®
Dark Cloud Cover and
Piercing Pattern
Both the dark cloud cover and the piercing pattern are reversal patterns that are
formed from two candlesticks of the opposite color. They may be referred to
generically as piercing lines because they both pierce the prior candle’s real body.
Dark Cloud Cover
The dark cloud cover (Figure 3.28) is a strong reversal pattern that forms after a
price advance.
Pattern Description and Criteria The dark cloud cover pattern includes the
following criteria:
• The first candle has a strong bullish real body (at least average length,
and often it is a long white candle).
• The second candle has a bearish real body. Price gaps up open above
the prior session’s high and closes deeply (ideally half-way or more) into
the prior session’s white real body. Because of this price action, the sec-
ond candle’s black real body will be at least average length, or longer.

JWBK100-ch03.qxd 2/21/08 8:57 AM Page 49 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File:JW
Candlestick Reversal Patterns 49
FIGURE 3.28 Dark cloud cover
The deeper the second candle’s black real body
penetrates the prior candle’s white real body, the stronger
the signal. If it engulfs the prior candle’s entire real body, blow-off
top
it is not a dark cloud cover pattern; it would be a bearish
engulfing pattern. A sharp
If the second candle’s bearish real body does not upward thrust
close at least halfway into the prior candle’s bullish real in an uptrend
body, it may be best to wait for additional downside con- is followed by
firmation before entering a short position based strictly aggressive
on the dark cloud cover’s signal. Confirmation comes selling. The
when price trades below the dark cloud cover day during move is
the following session, and even better if it closes below it. accompanied
It is not unusual to see heavy volume accompany by heavy
this reversal pattern. If so, and if this pattern forms at a volume and
major market top, it is a climax move called a blow-off top. often results in
a change in the
Pattern Psychology The trend is up and the formation direction of the
of a strong white candle shows the dominance of the trend.
bulls. The market gaps up open during the following
session with the bulls still in control. Then price turns
down and a sharp sell-off occurs. In spite of the higher open, by the end of the
session the bears have completely taken control away from the bulls and closed
the session well below the prior session’s close.
The pattern clearly demonstrates an abrupt reversal in market sentiment.
It is a striking reversal pattern and will be noticed by many traders.
Chart Example Figure 3.29 shows a daily chart of Knightsbridge Tankers
(VLCCF). After trending up for several weeks, price gapped up open to a new

JWBK100-ch03.qxd 2/21/08 8:57 AM Page 50 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File:JW
50 CANDLESTICK CHARTING
FIGURE 3.29 Bearish dark cloud cover pattern was accompanied
by heavy volume
Source: TeleChart 2007®
high on May 22, 2007 (circled). A sell-off began, and by the close of the session
nearly all of the gains from the prior session’s strong bullish candle had been
wiped out. Volume was heavy leading up to the reversal signal, as well as on
both days of the dark cloud formation suggesting a climax top. Price continued
its decline in the following days.
Acceptable Variation Although it sends a stronger signal if the second candle
gaps up open above the prior candle’s high, it is acceptable if price only gaps up
open above the prior candle’s close (Figure 3.30). Because both candlestick lines
of this pattern should have fairly long real bodies, the acceptable variation
would include the following criteria:
• The first candle has a strong bullish real body and also has an upper
shadow.
• The second candle gaps up open, not above the high of the prior ses-
sion’s upper shadow, but above the prior session’s close. In other words,
it opens within the prior candle’s upper shadow.
• The second candle’s black real body closes well into the prior candle’s
white real body.

JWBK100-ch03.qxd 2/21/08 8:57 AM Page 51 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File:JW
Candlestick Reversal Patterns 51
FIGURE 3.30 Dark cloud cover (variation)
Chart Example (Variation) Figure 3.31 shows a daily chart of Imperial Oil
Ltd. (IMO). On May 22, 2007, a strong bullish candle formed with a long
upper shadow (circled). The next session gapped up open above the prior
candle’s close but within its upper shadow. Price reversed direction and closed
far into the prior candle’s bullish real body. Heavy volume accompanied the
bearish reversal formation. Price consolidated after the climax move.
FIGURE 3.31 A variation of the bearish dark cloud cover pattern.
Price opened above the prior bar’s close rather than above its high
Source: TeleChart 2007®

JWBK100-ch03.qxd 2/21/08 8:57 AM Page 52 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File:JW
52 CANDLESTICK CHARTING
Helpful Hint Think of this pattern as an ominous black storm cloud rolling
in over a white cloud.
Piercing Pattern
The piercing pattern (Figure 3.32) is a strong reversal pattern that forms after a
price decline. It is the bullish counterpart of the dark cloud cover pattern.
Pattern Description and Criteria The piercing pattern includes the following
criteria:
• The first candle has a strong bearish real body (at least average length,
and often it is a long black candle).
• The second candle has a bullish real body. Price gaps down open below
the prior session’s low and closes deeply (more than half-way) into the
prior candle’s black real body. Because of this price action, the second
candle’s white real body will be at least average length, or longer.
The deeper the second candle’s white real body penetrates the prior can-
dle’s black real body, the more likely a reversal will occur. If it engulfs the prior
candle’s entire real body it is not a piercing pattern; it would be a bullish engulf-
ing pattern.
If the second candle’s bullish real body does not close at least halfway into
the prior candle’s bearish real body, it may be best to wait for additional confir-
mation before entering a long position based strictly on the piercing pattern’s
signal. Confirmation comes when price trades above the piercing candle during
the following session, and even better if it closes above it.
FIGURE 3.32 Piercing pattern

JWBK100-ch03.qxd 2/21/08 8:57 AM Page 53 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File:JW
Candlestick Reversal Patterns 53
It is not unusual to see heavy volume accompany
this reversal pattern. If so, it may point to a selling
climax. selling
climax
A sharp sell-off
Pattern Psychology The trend is down and the
in a downtrend
formation of a strong bearish candle further supports
is followed by
the dominance of the bears. The market gaps down
aggressive
open during the following session with the bears still
buying. The
in control. Then price turns up, and a strong rally
move is
ensues. By the end of the session, the bulls have been
accompanied
successful at closing price deeply into the prior black
by heavy
candle’s real body.
volume and
One look at this pattern and it is obvious that there
often results in
was an abrupt reversal in market sentiment. A weak
a change in the
(bearish) open is reversed, and price closes well above the
direction of the
prior day’s close. The striking contrast is very noticeable
trend.
on the chart and will be seen by many traders.
Chart Example Figure 3.33 shows a daily chart of Talisman Energy Inc.
(TLM). After a fast decline, price gapped down open on June 27, 2007, below
the prior session’s low (circled). Price reversed direction intraday and by the end
FIGURE 3.33 Bullish piercing pattern formed at support
Source:TeleChart 2007®

JWBK100-ch03.qxd 2/21/08 8:57 AM Page 54 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File:JW
54 CANDLESTICK CHARTING
of the session closed well into the prior candle’s long black real body. This
pattern had a higher chance of changing the trend direction because it formed
at support at the May low (dotted line).
Acceptable Variation Although it provides a stronger signal if price gaps
down open below the prior session’s low, it is acceptable if price only gaps down
open below the prior session’s close (Figure 3.34). Because both candlestick
lines of this pattern should have fairly long real bodies, the acceptable variation
would include the following criteria:
• The first candle has a strong bearish real body and also has a lower shadow.
• The second candle gaps down open, not below the low of the prior ses-
sion’s lower shadow, but below the prior session’s close. In other words,
it opens within the prior candle’s lower shadow.
• The second candle’s white real body closes at least halfway into the
prior candle’s black real body.
Chart Example (Variation) Figure 3.35 shows a daily chart of Intercontinental
Exchange Inc. (ICE). After a fast decline from July 17–25, 2007, price gapped
down open on July 26 (circled), to support (dotted line). Price did not gap open
below the prior candle’s low, but below its close and within its lower shadow. Price
reversed direction intraday and closed well into the prior candle’s bearish real
body. This example had even more support below than that shown in Figure
3.33. Many traders will observe such strong support, which increases the
likelihood that this pattern will follow through. This example shows how an
Eastern signal (reversal pattern) can converge with a Western technical event
(support) to increase the probability that a change in price direction will occur.
Support and resistance will be discussed in more detail in Part II.
FIGURE 3.34 Piercing pattern (variation)

JWBK100-ch03.qxd 2/21/08 8:57 AM Page 55 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File:JW
Candlestick Reversal Patterns 55
FIGURE 3.35 Variation of the piercing pattern formed at prior
support. Price opened below the prior bar’s close rather than be-
low its low
Source: TeleChart 2007®
Engulfing Patterns
An engulfing pattern is a strong reversal signal that includes two candlestick
lines of opposite color. The pattern forms after a directional price move, either
up (bearish pattern) or down (bullish pattern). The trend that precedes the pat-
tern may be short or longer term.
Pattern Description and Criteria
Engulfing patterns include the following criteria:
• The color of the first candle’s real body should correspond to the direc-
tion of the current trend: white in an uptrend or black in a downtrend.
• The second candle has a longer real body and is the opposite color of
the prior candle.
• The real body of the second candle must completely engulf (surround)
the real body of the first candle. It is not necessary that the second candle
envelop the prior candle’s upper and lower shadows, just the real body.

JWBK100-ch03.qxd 2/21/08 8:57 AM Page 56 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File:JW
56 CANDLESTICK CHARTING
Engulfing patterns are even stronger if one or more of the following fac-
tors are present:
• The engulfing candle forms after a long or steep trend.
• The real body of the first candle is very small, for example, a spinning
top or even a doji, and is engulfed by a long real body.
• The engulfing candle has a long real body with little or no upper and
lower shadows (shaven, or nearly so).
• The engulfing session is accompanied by heavy volume.
The engulfing pattern exemplifies an abrupt turnaround in investor psy-
chology. By the time the pattern is confirmed by the close of the engulfing ses-
sion, price may have made a fairly significant move in the new direction.
Bearish Engulfing Pattern
A bearish engulfing pattern forms after a price advance. The first candle has a
bullish real body. The second candle has a longer bearish real body that com-
pletely surrounds the prior candle’s white real body (Figure 3.36).
You will observe some bearish engulfing patterns where the close of the
first session is the same, or nearly the same, as the open of the second session
(Figure 3.37 left); or the open of the first session is the same, or near, the close
of the second session (Figure 3.37 right). It is acceptable if the prices match at
either end, but not at both ends. The second candle’s real body should be no-
ticeably longer than the first candle’s. If the prices were to match at both ends,
the real bodies would be the same size, which would not meet the engulfing
pattern criteria (though it would still show an abrupt shift in market senti-
ment). The same scenarios shown in Figure 3.37 apply to the bullish engulfing
pattern discussed later in this chapter except that the bullish pattern occurs after
a downtrend and the colors are reversed (black followed by white).
FIGURE 3.36 Bearish engulfing pattern

JWBK100-ch03.qxd 2/21/08 8:57 AM Page 57 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File:JW
Candlestick Reversal Patterns 57
FIGURE 3.37 Acceptable bearish engulfing patterns
Pattern Psychology In a rising market, price opens in the direction of the
trend but then makes an abrupt turnaround. The strong bearish engulfing
session sends a clear message that the bears have overtaken the bulls. The bearish
engulfing pattern is a prominent formation and will be noticed by many traders.
The bearish engulfing pattern is similar to the dark cloud cover pattern
except that, rather than piercing deeply into the prior candle’s white real body,
it completely envelops it. In addition, the first candle’s real body need not be at
least average length or longer, as required by the dark cloud cover pattern. The
bearish engulfing pattern is generally a stronger reversal signal than the dark
cloud cover pattern.
Chart Example Figure 3.38 shows a daily chart of Bolt Technology Corp.
(BTJ). A bearish engulfing pattern formed on July 9, 2007. This engulfing
pattern was made stronger because: it followed a sharp upward move; the
engulfing candle was significantly longer than the prior candle; and it was
accompanied by heavy volume. Price declined during the session following the
engulfing day, and then rallied back up from July 11 to 13 and formed a dark
cloud cover pattern at resistance provided by the top of the bearish engulfing
pattern. That test of resistance also set up a small bearish Western double top
pattern, which was confirmed on July 25 when the stock broke down through
support at the July 10 swing low (dotted line). Price gapped down the next day,
then curled back up for three days and tested the prior support (dotted line) as
resistance before declining further.

JWBK100-ch03.qxd 2/21/08 8:57 AM Page 58 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File:JW
58 CANDLESTICK CHARTING
FIGURE 3.38 Bearish engulfing pattern formed after a swift move up
Source:TeleChart 2007®
Bullish Engulfing Pattern
A bullish engulfing pattern forms after a price decline. It is the bullish counter-
part of the bearish engulfing pattern. The first candle has a bearish real body.
The second candle has a longer bullish real body that completely surrounds the
prior candle’s black real body (Figure 3.39).
Pattern Psychology In a declining market, price opens in the direction of the
trend but then makes an abrupt turnaround. The strong engulfing session sends
a clear message that the bulls have overtaken the bears. Many traders will react
to this prominent pattern. Concerned bears will scramble to cover their
positions, providing fuel for a rally.
FIGURE 3.39 Bullish engulfing pattern

JWBK100-ch03.qxd 2/21/08 8:57 AM Page 59 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File:JW
Candlestick Reversal Patterns 59
The bullish engulfing pattern is similar to the piercing pattern except that,
rather than piercing deeply into the prior candle’s black real body, it completely
envelops it. In addition, the first candle’s real body need not be at least average
length or longer, as required by the piercing pattern. As a general rule, the bull-
ish engulfing pattern is a stronger signal than the piercing pattern.
Chart Example Figure 3.40 shows a daily chart of Biomarin Pharmaceuticals
(BMRN). A strong bullish engulfing pattern formed on May 10, 2007. This
pattern was a major reversal signal for several reasons. First, it formed at prior
support at the April low (dotted line), which set up the potential for a bullish
Western double bottom pattern. Thus, the engulfing pattern formed a
candlestick pattern within the larger bullish pattern. Second, heavy volume
accompanied the engulfing session. Third, the prior day’s real body was very
small (a spinning top). Finally, the engulfing session was a long candle with a
shaven bottom. It not only enveloped the real body of the prior candle, but also
the real bodies of the three candles before it.
The Western Outside Day
In Western technical analysis there is a similar reversal bar pattern to the engulfing
pattern called an outside day(or outside baron other time frames). In both instances,
FIGURE 3.40 Strong bullish engulfing pattern formed at support
Source: TeleChart 2007®

JWBK100-ch03.qxd 2/21/08 8:57 AM Page 60 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File:JW
60 CANDLESTICK CHARTING
there must be an identifiable trend to reverse. There are distinct differences, how-
ever, between the Japanese engulfing pattern and the Western outside day:
• The Japanese put the emphasis on the real bodies. The first candle of an
engulfing pattern must have a smaller real body than the second candle.
The upper and/or lower shadow of the first session can extend beyond
the range of the second session.
• The focus of the Western outside day is on the bar’s range from high to
low. The range of the first bar must be within the range of the second
bar. Therefore, the shadows of the first bar cannot extend beyond the
second bar’s range.
• The Western outside day does not indicate that the second bar must be
opposite in sentiment to the first bar. The Japanese engulfing patterns
must have real bodies of opposite color.
Because of the differences mentioned above, not all engulfing patterns
qualify as outside days, or vice versa. Figure 3.41 is an outside day because it
made a new high and its range surrounded the prior bar’s range. However, it
would not qualify as a bearish engulfing pattern because the smaller real body
is not surrounded by the following session’s long black real body. Conversely,
Figure 3.42 is a bearish engulfing pattern, but would not qualify as an outside
day because it did not make a new high, and therefore the range of the second
bar does not surround the previous bar’s entire range.
Like the engulfing patterns, a Western outside day can be a negative or
positive signal, depending on whether it is preceded by a price advance (bearish)
or a decline (bullish). Figures 3.41 and 3.42 both represent bearish signals after
upward moves. The outside day has stricter criteria, so the engulfing pattern
will draw your attention to impending reversals that may not be recognized us-
ing a standard bar chart.
FIGURE 3.41 Western outside FIGURE 3.42 Bearish engulfing
day pattern

JWBK100-ch03.qxd 2/21/08 8:57 AM Page 61 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File:JW
Candlestick Reversal Patterns 61
Harami
As mentioned previously, doji and spinning tops, while important in their own
right as individual candlestick lines, are also components of other candlestick
patterns. The harami is one such pattern.
The harami can have bearish or bullish implications, depending on whether
it forms following a price advance (bearish) or a decline (bullish). It is a two-
candle formation that is comprised of a small real body that forms within the
prior candle’s long real body.
Pattern Description and Criteria
The harami pattern includes the following criteria:
• The first candle has a long real body. Its color reflects the direction of
the trend: black in a downtrend and white in an uptrend.
• The real body of the second candle is significantly smaller than the
prior candle’s real body. In many instances it will be a spinning top.
• The second candle’s small real body can be either black or white.
However, in most instances, it is the opposite color of the prior real
body.
The following criteria will add strength to the harami pattern:
• The smaller the body of the second candle, the stronger the signal. A
very small body shows hesitation.
• If the second candle is a doji, it is interpreted as even more powerful
and is called a harami cross.
• If the small real body (or doji) forms after an unusually long candlestick
line, it increases the probability of a change in direction.
The harami pattern is the opposite of the engulfing pattern. Rather than
engulfing the first candle’s real body, the harami’s second candle forms within
the prior candle’s real body. Another important distinction between these pat-
terns is that the engulfing pattern criterion requires that the two candles be of
opposite colors, whereas the second session of the harami can be either black or
white.
Although harami patterns may not typically be as strong as some other re-
versal patterns, such as the engulfing patterns or the morning or evening stars,
the appearance of a harami is an indication that the market may be losing mo-
mentum and should signal caution.

JWBK100-ch03.qxd 2/21/08 8:57 AM Page 62 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File:JW
62 CANDLESTICK CHARTING
Bearish Harami
A bearish harami forms after a price advance. The first candle’s long white real
body is followed the next session by a noticeably smaller real body, either black
or white, that resides within the prior candle’s longer body (Figure 3.43).
If the second candle is a doji, the pattern is referred to as a bearish harami
cross (Figure 3.44) and is a stronger signal. According to Steve Nison, in his
book Japanese Candlestick Charting Techniques (New York Institute of Finance,
2001, p. 83): “A harami cross occurring after a very long white candle is a pat-
tern a long trader ignores at his or her own peril.”
If the second candle’s small body gaps up open above the prior candle’s
long white body, it is not a harami pattern. It may be a hanging man or a bear-
ish star pattern.
Pattern Psychology The bearish harami represents a shift from a session
where the leadership is clearly one-sided in favor of the bulls, to a session
where there is no real conviction by the bulls or bears. The second candle’s
lower close will cause some concern for the bulls. If price continues lower follow-
ing the harami, many bulls will exit their long positions, increasing the bearish
sentiment.
Chart Example Figure 3.45 shows a daily chart of Corn Products International
Inc. (CPO). On June 28, 2007, a long bullish candle formed. Price gapped
down open during the following session and formed a doji (circled) within the
prior candle’s long white real body. Price stalled again the next day (a spinning
top) and then continued to decline.
FIGURE 3.43 Bearish harami FIGURE 3.44 Bearish harami cross

JWBK100-ch03.qxd 2/21/08 8:57 AM Page 63 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File:JW
Candlestick Reversal Patterns 63
FIGURE 3.45 Bearish harami cross formed in an uptrend
Source: TeleChart 2007®
Bullish Harami
A bullish harami forms after a price decline. It is the bullish counterpart of the
bearish harami. The first candle’s long black real body is followed in the next
session by a noticeably smaller real body, either black or white, that resides
within the prior candle’s longer body (Figure 3.46).
If the second candle is a doji, the pattern is referred to as a bullish harami
cross (Figure 3.47) and provides a stronger signal. According to Nison, the
FIGURE 3.46 Bullish harami FIGURE 3.47 Bullish harami cross

JWBK100-ch03.qxd 2/21/08 8:57 AM Page 64 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File:JW
64 CANDLESTICK CHARTING
harami cross can call bottoms, but they tend to be more effective at calling
tops.
If the second session’s small body gaps down open below the prior candle’s
long black real body, it is not a harami pattern. It may be a hammer or inverted
hammer, or a bullish star pattern.
Pattern Psychology The bullish harami represents a shift from a session
where the leadership is clearly one-sided in favor of the bears, to a session where
there is no real conviction by the bulls or bears. The second candle’s higher close
will cause some concern for the bears and result in some short covering. If price
continues higher following the harami, more bears will cover their short positions,
providing fuel for a rally.
Chart Example Figure 3.48 shows a daily chart of Ship Finance International
Ltd. (SFL). On June 7, 2007, price gapped down open and fell sharply, forming
an unusually long bearish candle. The following session opened higher (circled)
and left a spinning top by the close of market, which formed a bullish harami
pattern.
FIGURE 3.48 Bullish harami formed after a sharp decline
Source: TeleChart 2007®

JWBK100-ch03.qxd 2/21/08 8:57 AM Page 65 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File:JW
Candlestick Reversal Patterns 65
The Western Inside Day
In Western technical analysis there is a bar pattern that is similar to the
harami called an inside day (or inside bar on other time frames). There are
distinct differences between the Japanese harami and the Western inside
day:
• The Japanese put the emphasis on the real bodies. The first candle of a
harami pattern must have a long real body and the second candle has a
small real body. The upper and/or lower shadow of the second candle
canextend beyond the range of the first candle.
• The focus of the Western inside day is on the bar’s range from high to
low. The range of the second bar must be within the range of the first
bar. The shadows of the second bar cannot extend beyond the range of
the first bar.
• The Western inside day does not indicate that the second bar must have
a short distance between the opening and closing prices (a small body).
Because of the differences mentioned above, not all harami patterns qual-
ify as inside days, and vice versa. Figure 3.49 is an inside day, but would not
qualify as a harami because the small real body is not completely surrounded
by the prior candle’s long real body. Figure 3.50 is a harami, but would not
qualify as an inside day because the upper shadow extends beyond the high of
the first bar.
Like the harami patterns, a change in the direction of price may follow an
inside day. However, it is not as strong a signal as an outside day.
FIGURE 3.49 Western inside day FIGURE 3.50 Bearish harami

JWBK100-ch03.qxd 2/21/08 8:57 AM Page 66 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File:JW
66 CANDLESTICK CHARTING
Stars
A star is formed when a candle with a long real body is followed by a small
real body, or a doji, that gaps away from the first candle. A star can be a bear-
ish sign if it forms after a price advance, or a bullish sign if it forms after a
decline.
Pattern Description and Criteria
A star includes the following criteria:
• The first candle has a long real body. Its color reflects the direction of
the trend: black in a downtrend and white in an uptrend.
• The second candle gaps away from the real body of the first candle. Al-
though this gap will sometimes leave a void on the chart (a true gap),
all that is required is that there be a gap between the two consecutive
real bodies that comprise the pattern; their shadows may overlap. (Gaps
are covered in detail in Part II.)
• The real body of the second candle is significantly smaller than the
prior candle’s real body, for example, a spinning top. The second can-
dle’s small body can be either black or white.
• The second candle may form a doji, in which case it would be referred
to as a doji star.
The description of a star pattern sounds similar to a harami, but there is
an important distinction between the two. The second candle of a harami forms
within the real body of the first candle. The second candle of a star gaps away
from the prior candle’s real body. In other words, the real bodies of the two ses-
sions of the star don’t touch, although their shadows may overlap. There may be
cases where the two bodies meet, or slightly overlap, that could be acceptable
variations, especially if the pattern forms at a point where price is overextended
or has reached a support or resistance area.
A bearish star is comprised of two candlestick lines that form after a price
advance. The first candle has a long bullish real body. The star is formed when
price gaps up open during the next session and leaves a small real body (Figure
3.51). The small real body is the star portion of the pattern; it can be either
black or white. If the session following the long candle is a doji, it is a stronger
signal referred to as a bearish doji star(Figure 3.52).
A bullish star forms after a price decline. It is the bullish counterpart of
the bearish star. The first candle has a long bearish real body. The star is formed
when price gaps down open during the following session and leaves a small real

JWBK100-ch03.qxd 2/21/08 8:57 AM Page 67 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File:JW
Candlestick Reversal Patterns 67
FIGURE 3.51 Bearish star FIGURE 3.52 Bearish doji star
body (Figure 3.53). The small real body can be either black or white. If the
second candle is a doji, it is a stronger signal referred to as a bullish doji star
(Figure 3.54).
A two-candlestick star pattern can stand on its own as a potential reversal
signal. However, it is best known as a component of other reversal patterns. For
example, the bearish shooting star pattern was discussed earlier in this chapter.
Two other well-known star patterns are the three-candle evening star and morn-
ing star formations. They both include either a star or doji star as the first two
candlestick lines in the pattern.
Pattern Psychology The presence of a star signals a loss of momentum and
may be followed by a change in price direction. The atmosphere changes from
one in which there is clear leadership in the form of a long bullish or bearish
real body, to a session in which there is a standoff between the bulls and bears.
FIGURE 3.53 Bullish star FIGURE 3.54 Bullish doji star

JWBK100-ch03.qxd 2/21/08 8:57 AM Page 68 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File:JW
68 CANDLESTICK CHARTING
Evening Star
An evening star is a bearish three-candlestick pattern that forms after a price
advance.
Pattern Description and Criteria The evening star includes the following
criteria:
• The first candle has a long bullish real body.
• The second session gaps up open and forms a small real body creating
the star portion of the pattern. The gap need only be between the bod-
ies of the first two candles; the shadows may overlap.
• The small real body can be either black or white, or a doji.
• The third candle has a bearish real body that intrudes deeply into the
first candle’s long bullish real body.
The deeper the intrusion of the third candle’s black real body into the first
candle’s long white real body, the more likely a reversal, especially if the third
session is accompanied by heavy volume.
An ideal pattern (Figure 3.55) would have the required gap between the
bodies of the first and second candles, and a gap between the bodies of the
second and third candles. However, ideal patterns are not very common.
There is often some overlap between the bodies of the second and third candles
(Figure 3.56). If the third candle’s real body envelops the star’s real body, it is
also a bearish engulfing pattern (as long as the star’s body is white or a doji). If
the star portion of the pattern is a doji, the pattern is referred to as an evening
doji star(Figure 3.57). The inclusion of a doji strengthens the signal.
FIGURE 3.55 Evening star (ideal) FIGURE 3.56 Evening star

JWBK100-ch03.qxd 2/21/08 8:57 AM Page 69 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File:JW
Candlestick Reversal Patterns 69
FIGURE 3.57 Evening doji star
Pattern Psychology Price has been advancing, and the formation of a long
white candle shows further evidence of the bulls’ dominance. That leadership
comes into question during the next session with the formation of the star and
the indecision that it signifies. A major shift in sentiment comes during the
third session, when a sharp sell-off erases much of the gains the bulls had
achieved during the first session’s rally.
Chart Examples Figure 3.58 shows a daily chart of Copart Inc. (CPRT). An
evening doji star formed from July 6 to 10, 2007 (circled). The pattern was very
strong for a few reasons. First, it included a doji in the formation. Second, the black
real body of the third candle penetrated very deeply into the first candle’s white real
body. In fact, it closed near the open of that candle erasing all of that session’s gains.
Finally, the pattern formed very near resistance at the June high (dotted line). Take a
closer look at the June high. It would have been an evening star as well except that
there were two candles in between the long candles rather than one. Those two
candles in between were both back-to-back bearish hanging man patterns.
Figure 3.59 shows a daily chart of ConocoPhillips (COP). An evening star
formed from July 12 to 16, 2007 (circled). It includes the required gap between
the real bodies of the first and second sessions. The bodies of the second and
third candles touch; however, that does not take away from the strength of this
setup. The third session was accompanied by very heavy volume, increasing the
chance that a reversal would follow, which it did.
Acceptable Variation In most texts on candlestick charting, the criterion for
the third candle of the evening star indicates that it should protrude deeply into
the long real body of the first session. I have never seen it written that, if the
third candle’s long black real body extends beyond the first candle’s long white

JWBK100-ch03.qxd 2/21/08 8:57 AM Page 70 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File:JW
70 CANDLESTICK CHARTING
FIGURE 3.58 Bearish evening doji star formed in an uptrend
near resistance at the June high
Source: TeleChart 2007®
FIGURE 3.59 Bearish evening star formed after an uptrend.
Heavy volume increased the likelihood of a reversal
Source: TeleChart 2007®

JWBK100-ch03.qxd 2/21/08 8:57 AM Page 71 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File:JW
Candlestick Reversal Patterns 71
FIGURE 3.60 Evening star (variation)
real body (Figure 3.60), the signal is invalid. Thus, I
consider it to be an acceptable variation of the pattern.
However, it is important to note that with such a long reward-
to-risk ratio
candle on the third session, there may not be an adequate
reward-to-risk ratio to enter a short position upon its A ratio used by
completion. Reward versus risk is discussed in Part II. traders to
determine the
Chart Example (Variation) Figure 3.61 shows a daily potential
chart of McMoran Exploration Co. (MMR). The above- reward (profit)
referenced variation of an evening star formed from compared to
April 13 to 17, 2007 (circled). There was a gap between the potential
the real bodies of the first and second candles, as well as risk (loss) if a
between the second and third candles. The star portion position is
of the pattern was a hanging man. The third candle’s real taken in a
body extended well beyond the body of the first candle stock or other
and was accompanied by heavy volume. trading
instrument.
Helpful Hint The “evening star” is a nickname for the The ratio is
planet Venus, which is visible just before dark. As its calculated by
appearance shows, the formation goes from light to dark. dividing the
Think of the first candlestick line as daylight, the second potential
as dusk, and the black real body of the third candle as reward by the
darkness. potential risk.
Morning Star
A morning staris a three-candle pattern that forms after a price decline. It is the
bullish counterpart of the evening star.

JWBK100-ch03.qxd 2/21/08 8:57 AM Page 72 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File:JW
72 CANDLESTICK CHARTING
FIGURE 3.61 Variation of the bearish evening star pattern
Source: TeleChart 2007®
Pattern Description and Criteria
The morning star includes the following criteria:
• The first candle has a long bearish real body.
• The second session gaps down open and forms a small real body creat-
ing the star portion of the pattern. The gap need only be between the
bodies of the first two candles; the shadows may overlap.
• The small real body can be either black or white, or a doji.
• The third candle has a bullish real body that intrudes deeply into the
first candle’s long bearish real body.
The deeper the intrusion of the third candle’s white real body into the first
candle’s black real body, the more likely a reversal, especially if the third session
is accompanied by heavy volume.
An ideal pattern (Figure 3.62) would have the required gap between the
bodies of the first and second candles, and a gap between the bodies of the sec-
ond and third candles. However, ideal patterns are not very common. There is
often some overlap between the second and third candles (Figure 3.63). If the
third candle’s real body envelops the star’s real body, it is also a bullish engulfing
pattern (as long as the star’s body is black or a doji). If the star portion of the
pattern is a doji, the pattern is referred to as a morning doji star (Figure 3.64).
The inclusion of a doji strengthens the signal.

JWBK100-ch03.qxd 2/21/08 8:57 AM Page 73 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File:JW
Candlestick Reversal Patterns 73
FIGURE 3.62 Morning star (ideal) FIGURE 3.63 Morning star
FIGURE 3.64 Morning doji star
Pattern Psychology Price has been declining when a long black candle forms,
offering further evidence of the bears’ dominance. That leadership comes into
question during the next session with the formation of the star and the indecision
that it brings. A major shift in sentiment comes during the third session when a
strong rally erases much of the gains the bears had attained during the first
session’s sharp decline. It shows that the bulls have arrived, and many bears will
cover their positions, providing fuel for a rally.
Chart Examples Figure 3.65 shows a daily chart of Knight Capital Group
Inc. (NITE). A morning doji star formed from March 2 to 6, 2007 (circled).
The star session was a long-legged doji. Note that there were gaps on both sides
of the star, increasing its strength.

JWBK100-ch03.qxd 2/21/08 8:57 AM Page 74 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File:JW
74 CANDLESTICK CHARTING
FIGURE 3.65 Bullish morning doji star formed in a downtrend
Source: TeleChart 2007®
Figure 3.66 shows a daily chart of Las Vegas Sands (LVS). A bullish
morning star formed from June 26 to 28, 2007 (circled). The required gap was
present between the first candle’s black real body and the star. The third can-
dle’s white real body enveloped the star’s smaller real body; however, this was
not a bullish engulfing pattern because the two real bodies were not of opposite
color. Note that the star portion was a hammer.
Acceptable Variation The criterion for the third candle of the morning
star indicates that it should protrude deeply into the long real body of the
first candle. I consider it an acceptable variation if the third candle’s long
white real body extends beyond the first candle’s long black real body (Figure
3.67). However, such a long candle on the third session may not create an
adequate reward-to-risk ratio to enter a long position upon completion of the
pattern.
Chart Example (Variation) Figure 3.68 shows a daily chart of Under
Armour Inc. (UA). The above-referenced variation of a morning star formed
on the chart from March 2 to 6, 2007 (circled). There was a gap between the
bodies on both sides of the star strengthening the pattern. The third candle’s
long white real body extended beyond the first candle’s black real body.

JWBK100-ch03.qxd 2/21/08 8:57 AM Page 75 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File:JW
Candlestick Reversal Patterns 75
FIGURE 3.66 Bullish morning star formed after a downtrend
Source: TeleChart 2007®
Helpful Hint The “morning star” is a nickname for the planet Mercury,
which appears shortly before sunrise. As its appearance shows, the formation
goes from dark to light. Think of the first candlestick line as darkness, the second
as dawn, and the white real body of the third candle as daylight.
FIGURE 3.67 Morning star (variation)

JWBK100-ch03.qxd 2/21/08 8:57 AM Page 76 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File:JW
76 CANDLESTICK CHARTING
FIGURE 3.68 Variation of the bullish morning star formed after
a downtrend
Source:TeleChart 2007®
Multiple Signals
It is not unusual to see one reversal pattern followed by another. For example,
in Figure 3.69 a bearish harami (1-2) was followed in the next session by a bear-
ish shooting star (3). Back-to-back bearish or bullish reversal patterns simply
send a stronger warning that a change in price direction may occur.
You’ll also see instances where a single line reversal pattern is part of a re-
versal pattern that includes two or three distinct candle lines. In Figure 3.69 the
second candle of the harami (2) was a bearish hanging man. And in Figure
3.70 a hammer (2) was part of a three-candle morning star (1-2-3).
Putting the Reversal Patterns
to Work
The primary focus of this chapter was to introduce you to the various reversal
patterns. You have enough information now to recognize the patterns and un-
derstand the messages they provide about investor psychology.

JWBK100-ch03.qxd 2/21/08 8:57 AM Page 77 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File:JW
Candlestick Reversal Patterns 77
FIGURE 3.69 Back-to-back reversal FIGURE 3.70 Reversal pattern
patterns within a reversal pattern
Source: TeleChart 2007® Source: TeleChart 2007®
Chapter 4 will provide additional information on how the patterns form
and some factors that may impact their signals. These two chapters will be very
helpful in your chart analysis; however, they are not enough to show you how to
unlock the full potential of the reversal patterns. Each subsequent chapter will
provide another rich layer of knowledge that will move you toward the ultimate
goal of putting the candlestick signals to work in your chart analysis and trading
strategies.

JWBK100-ch03.qxd 2/21/08 8:57 AM Page 78 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File:JW

JWBK100-ch04.qxd 2/21/08 9:01 AM Page 79 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File:JW
4
Chapter
More on Reversal
Patterns
Now that you are familiar with the primary candlestick reversal patterns,
this chapter will solidify your understanding of how they form. It will
also point to some factors that may influence the occurrence and per-
formance of the signals.
The Pattern Must Have Something
to Reverse
It matters where a candlestick reversal pattern forms on a chart. In order for a
reversal signal to have significance, price must be moving in a direction, either
up or down, prior to the forma-
tion of the pattern. Bearish rever-
overbought sal patterns are relevant if they oversold
A condition in form after an upside move. Con- A condition in
which a stock versely, bullish reversal patterns which a stock
or market has are important if they form after a or market has
risen too far downside move. As a general rule, fallen too far
too quickly the reversal pattern should form too quickly
and is likely to at, or near, the end of the direc- and is likely to
suffer at least tional price move. experience at
a short-term If price is moving sideways, least a short-
decline or referred to as consolidation, and a term rally or
period of reversal pattern forms within that period of
consolidation. congestion area, it has little or no consolidation.
significance, especially if price has
79

JWBK100-ch04.qxd 2/21/08 9:01 AM Page 80 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File:JW
80 CANDLESTICK CHARTING
been moving sideways for several days already when the pattern forms. If the
stock was in a short-term overbought or oversold condition prior to the consol-
idation, that overextended condition has already been alleviated by the side-
ways price action. In other words, there is no longer a move to reverse; price has
already changed direction.
Example
Figure 4.1 shows a daily chart of OSI Pharmaceuticals Inc (OSIP). On
October 29, 2007 a bearish hanging man formed during the session
following a very long bullish candle. This bearish signal was meaningful
because there was a price advance to reverse. Price changed direction
moving sideways for several days following the hanging man. On
November 7 a bearish shooting star formed. However, price had already
been consolidating for several days prior to the formation of the shooting
star so it had little significance as a bearish reversal signal. What the
shooting star’s long upper shadow did show us in this scenario was a failed
breakout attempt. Price had rallied intraday above the consolidation area
but the bulls were not able to sustain the rally and price closed back inside
the consolidation area leaving just the upper shadow.
FIGURE 4.1 Reversal patterns are not significant if they form
during consolidation
Source: TeleChart 2007®

JWBK100-ch04.qxd 2/21/08 9:01 AM Page 81 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File:JW
More on Reversal Patterns 81
The consolidation shown in Figure 4.1 was very
tight. I refer to this type of shallow sideways movement
rectangle as “basing.” According to Nison, the Japanese refer to it
A pattern that as a “box range.” Another type of consolidation occurs
forms on a when price moves sideways but makes identifiable price
chart when swings across the consolidation (see Figure 4.2). This
price moves price action is called a rectangle. It may also be referred
sideways, to as a trading range or a horizontal channel.The short-
swinging back term price swings across the rectangle often find resis-
and forth in a tance near the ceiling and support near the floor. You
bounded may see candlestick reversal patterns form at those
range. The top turning points because there is a short-term trend to
of the range reverse.
becomes On the daily chart of Commercial Metals Co.
resistance, and (CMC) in Figure 4.2, the stock was trapped in a trading
the bottom of range from May through July 2007. Several of the short-
the range term swings across the rectangle ended with candlestick re-
becomes versal patterns as follows:
support. A
rectangle 1. May 9: A bearish hanging man
represents a (1) created the first peak in
false
pause within a what eventually evolved into a
breakout
trend and is trading range.
Price closes
usually 2. June 4:A doji (2) formed as the above an
resolved with a May 9 swing high was tested. identifiable
breakout in the
3. June 13:A bullish hammer (3), resistance
direction of the
which was also part of a bullish area, or below
trend;
harami, formed as the May low an identifiable
however, at
was tested. support area,
times it will
but does not
4. June 27: Another bullish ham-
precede a
have enough
mer (4) formed at what is now
trend reversal.
momentum to
clearly defined as support.
continue the
5. July 16:After breaking out just above the ceiling
move. Price
of the rectangle, a bearish engulfing pattern (5)
reverses
pulled price back down, leaving a false break-
direction
out. False breakdowns through support may
invalidating
also occur. Such false moves are common and
the breakout
are frustrating for unsuspecting traders.
and forcing
traders to exit
In summary, a key component of analyzing candle-
their positions.
stick reversal patterns is to make sure to evaluate the price

JWBK100-ch04.qxd 2/21/08 9:01 AM Page 82 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File:JW
82 CANDLESTICK CHARTING
FIGURE 4.2 Reversal patterns formed at the ceiling and floor
of a rectangle
Source: TeleChart 2007®
action that precededthe formation of the pattern. There must be at least a short-
term price move to reverse in order for a reversal signal to have validity.
Factors That May Strengthen the
Reversal Signal
Listed below are some factors that may increase the likelihood that a change in
price direction will follow a reversal pattern:
• The stock is overbought when a bearish pattern forms or oversold when
a bullish pattern forms. Oscillators are technical indicators that can
measure these overextended conditions. Overextended conditions and
the use of oscillators are detailed in Part II.
• The pattern follows a steep move. Significant gains can be made during
a swift move, and traders will be protective of those gains. Therefore,
these events are very vulnerable to profit-taking. If price starts to re-
verse, many stops will trigger. The result is often a fast and sharp de-
cline after a bearish pattern or advance following a bullish pattern.

JWBK100-ch04.qxd 2/21/08 9:01 AM Page 83 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File:JW
More on Reversal Patterns 83
• The pattern does not occur much on the stock. If the pattern forms fre-
quently, it may not have a significant impact on price movement un-
less, of course, when it does form often, it usually follows through well.
Otherwise, if a pattern forms often, the emergence of yet another of the
same pattern may not be very significant.
• The pattern forms at a strong support level (bullish pattern) or resis-
tance level (bearish pattern). Several such chart examples were provided
in Chapter 3 and more discussion on support and resistance is included
in Part II.
Broad Market Environment
It is important to pay attention to the broader market. If a broad market rally or
sell-off occurs, many stocks will rise or fall in kind, at least for the short term.
This can have an influence on the success or failure of reversal patterns. It can
also impact how stocks respond to support and resistance levels. When the
broad market rallies strongly, you’ll see many stocks break up through resis-
tance. Conversely, when the broad market melts down, many stocks will break
down through previously strong support levels.
The market environment may also influence the
type and number of reversal patterns that form on the
charts of stocks. At the time of this writing (July–August
stock index
2007), the broad market was experiencing a correction.
An indicator
One of the primary drivers was the problems in the sub-
used to track
prime mortgage market, which hit many financial stocks
the composite
hard. It sent a ripple through the markets. The result was
value for a
a dramatic increase in volatility. Day after day the Dow
particular
Jones Industrial Average experienced triple-digit ad-
group of
vances or declines (see Figure 4.3). On many days, the
stocks. The S&P
intraday action resembled a roller coaster ride. The S&P
500 is a very
500 Index fared even worse since its component list in-
well-known
cludes many financial stocks.
large-cap
During that volatile period, many candlestick lines
index that is
and patterns formed on charts, which echoed the mar-
commonly used
ket’s instability. Long shadows were common, highlight-
as a benchmark
ing the wide price swings intraday. Although reversal
for the stock
formations were prevalent, their signals were very short
market.
term and not always reliable given the unsettling envi-
ronment. It was an exasperating time for investors as
they worried over their portfolios; however, it was a profitable time for experi-
enced day traders and swing traders who understood how to benefit from the
volatility.

JWBK100-ch04.qxd 2/21/08 9:01 AM Page 84 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File:JW
84 CANDLESTICK CHARTING
Example
On August 16, 2007 a hammer with a very long lower shadow formed
on the daily chart of the Dow Jones Industrial Average (Figure 4.3). The
body was so small that some chartists would have interpreted it as a
dragonfly doji; regardless, it was a bullish signal. In fact, the three days
from August 15 to 17 formed a variation of a bullish morning star.
Hammers also formed on the S&P 500 and Nasdaq Composite index
charts on August 16. Given that, just imagine how many hammers,
dragonfly and long-legged doji, and other bullish reversal patterns
formed on the charts of individual stocks.
FIGURE 4.3 Volatile days for the Dow
Source: TeleChart 2007®
Remember that this broad market decline was largely spurred by credit
concerns. Therefore, many financial stocks declined sharply. The long can-
dles and long shadows that formed on their charts illustrated the increased
volatility.

JWBK100-ch04.qxd 2/21/08 9:01 AM Page 85 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File:JW
More on Reversal Patterns 85
Example
Figure 4.4 shows a daily chart of Morgan Stanley (MS), a brokerage
stock. Note the dramatic increase in volatility (circled) that reflected the
troubles in the financial sector.
FIGURE 4.4 Increased volatility in a financial stock
Source: TeleChart 2007®
Reversal Patterns May Not
Reverse a Trend
Traders should be cautious of the word reversal. Although the candlestick pat-
terns introduced in Chapter 3 are referred to as reversal patterns, and they do
have the tendency to be followed by a change in the direction of price, it does
not mean the patterns will be followed by a trend reversal. A trend reversal is a
significant event. Price would have to retrace at least two thirds of the prior
trend before it technically would be deemed a trend reversal. Moreover, these
patterns warn that price may reverse the current direction, at least temporarily.
When a bearish reversal pattern forms after an upward move, it signals
that price may change direction from up to down, or sideways, and vice versa
for a bullish signal after a downward move. If a significant reversal does not fol-
low a candlestick signal, it does not mean that the candlestick pattern failed.

JWBK100-ch04.qxd 2/21/08 9:01 AM Page 86 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File:JW
86 CANDLESTICK CHARTING
Candlestick reversal patterns provide primarily short-
term signals. If a pattern is followed only by a pullback
price target or period of minor consolidation, the signal was still suc-
A projected cessful at calling a change in price direction.
price level No matter how strong a reversal signal, or how
where, if it is ominous its name or appearance, it does not dictate how
reached, a significant the change in price will be (the magnitude).
trader intends Candlestick patterns do not provide price targets. Nor
to exit an open do they predict how long a change in price direction will
position. last (the duration).
An entire chapter in Part II is devoted to the dis-
cussion of trend analysis. Once you’ve completed that
segment, you’ll have a better understanding of the role of candlestick patterns
within the bigger picture of price movement.
Failed Reversal Patterns
Traders should not expect that every reversal signal will be successful at calling a
change in price direction. Reversal patterns can and do fail. To my knowledge,
nothing in technical analysis works 100 percent of the time. However, it is bet-
ter to respond to a signal that turns out to be false than to ignore a valid one.
Price should change direction shortly after the emergence of a reversal pat-
tern. If, instead, price immediately moves again in the direction of the trend,
the signal has been negated. For example, if a bearish hanging man forms and
price fails to close below the hanging man’s real body, and instead moves higher,
the hanging man’s signal is no longer valid. If price is still overextended, though,
the stock is vulnerable and additional reversal signals may follow. Refer back to
Figure 3.27 in Chapter 3 for an example. On that chart, a hammer formed dur-
ing a sharp decline, but price continued lower in the next session, negating its
bullish signal. Two days after the hammer’s failed signal, a long-legged doji
formed at support. Buyers stepped in at that level and many shorts covered
stopping the stock’s fall.
The probability of follow-through can be enhanced by combining the
reversal signals with classic Western technical analysis, which is the focus of
Part II.
Reversal Pattern Psychology
One of the most important aspects to absorb when studying the reversal pat-
terns is the psychology behind their formations. Rather than just memorizing

JWBK100-ch04.qxd 2/21/08 9:01 AM Page 87 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File:JW
More on Reversal Patterns 87
the look of the pattern and its name, try to really understand how the price ac-
tion unfolded during the session(s) that formed the pattern. At the close of
market, the daily bar provides a snapshot of the day’s battle; but if you view the
intraday time frames, you’ll see the detailsof the battle. Reference was made sev-
eral times in Chapter 3 to the bulls taking control from the bears intraday, or
vice versa. The discussion that follows demonstrates how that transfer of power
might occur.
Example
Figure 4.5 shows a daily chart of Peabody Energy (BTU). On August 6,
2007, a bullish hammer formed after a price decline. A short-covering
rally occurred in the days following the reversal pattern. However, that
rally actually began intraday on the day the hammer formed, as you’ll
see on the 5-minute chart in Figure 4.6.
FIGURE 4.5 Daily chart of Peabody Energy (BTU). A bullish
hammer formed on August 6, 2007
Source: TeleChart 2007®

JWBK100-ch04.qxd 2/21/08 9:01 AM Page 88 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File:JW
88 CANDLESTICK CHARTING
FIGURE 4.6 5-minute chart of Peabody Energy (BTU) on August
6, 2007
Source: TeleChart 2007®
Figure 4.6 shows the August 6 intraday price action that created the bull-
ish hammer on BTU’s daily chart. The following commentary steps you
through the day’s price action as it appeared on a 5-minute chart. The numbers
correspond to the numbers on the chart:
1. Price gapped up open and rallied for the first 5 minutes of trading.
2. Price reversed direction and declined for 15 minutes.
3. Some buying pressure occurred over the next two bars, temporarily
stopping the fall and putting in the first bottom.
4. Price turned down again and tested the bottom (at 3), which did not
hold.
5. The decline continued for several more bars. Price turned up again for 5
minutes. That bounce put in the second prominent bottom of the day.
6. Price turned back down and tested the new low (at 5). This time the
bottom provided support and price rallied.
7. After each swing up , price pulled back some before moving higher.
8. Price pulled back deeper this time, correcting part of the uptrend be-
fore continuing higher.

JWBK100-ch04.qxd 2/21/08 9:01 AM Page 89 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File:JW
More on Reversal Patterns 89
9. Price continued its series of upward intraday swings, followed by mi-
nor pullbacks until the end of the day.
From this intraday price action you can see where the bulls were successful
at taking control from the bears. The bears dominated most of the price action
between numbers 1 and 5. This is obvious from the price direction, but also by
the fact that most of the price bars during that time were bearish candles. Be-
tween numbers 6 and 9 the bulls were in charge and were able to push price
back up to close slightly higher than it opened. The intraday decline that was
followed by a reversal is what created the hammer’s long lower shadow that you
see on the daily chart. If you were to press all those intraday price bars together,
you’d see how they translate into a hammer with a white real body on the daily
chart.
You can learn a lot by examining the daily candle and then shifting down
to a lower intraday time frame to see how that daily candle was created from the
intraday price movement. If your intention is to swing trade the markets or be-
come a day trader, understanding these concepts will help you develop your
trading strategies. It may make a significant difference on your profitability.
Even if you intend to hold most of your positions longer-term, the weekly and
monthly charts break down to lower time frames as well, so the lesson is still
applicable.
Beware of Thin Markets
Caution! Beware of thinly traded stocks or markets. Candlestick signals are
much more reliable on stocks that trade adequate volume than they are on illiquid
issues. Volume will be discussed in Chapter 6.

JWBK100-ch04.qxd 2/21/08 9:01 AM Page 90 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File:JW

JWBK100-ch05.qxd 2/21/08 11:37 AM Page 91 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File:J
5
Chapter
Tails
Acandlestick line’s upper and lower shadows represent the price extremes
(the high and low) of the trading session. Although the Japanese do put
a lot of emphasis on the candlestick’s real body, the shadows can also tell
us a lot about the psychology of market participants. Therefore, shadows play an
important role in chart analysis. The following discussion specifically addresses
the formation and implications of long shadows.
Long shadows are often called tails. As you learned in Chapter 3, there are
several reversal patterns that include tails in their formation, for example, the
hanging man and the shooting star. Not every candlestick line that forms a
long shadow will meet the criteria of a specific candlestick pattern. Regardless
of whether the formation has a name or not, it is important to understand the
message behind a tail.
Long upper shadows are bearish shadows (Figure 5.1). The presence of one
or more bearish shadows after a price advance demonstrates that the market is
reaching for a top. There is not enough demand at higher prices to continue to
propel the stock upward, at least for the short term. This is especially evident
near a resistance area or in an overbought condition. The tail(s) indicates that
the bulls are taking profits and bears are stepping into short positions.
The presence of long upper shadows on a standard bar chart can be de-
ceiving. They might come across as bullish since price may still be making
higher highs and, in some cases, higher closes. The candlestick line makes it
easy to see, though, that price has closed well off its high. The inability of the
bulls to sustain the intraday rally and close nearer the high is actually a bearish
sign if it occurs after a price advance.
Long lower shadows are bullish shadows (Figure 5.2). The formation of
one or more bullish shadows after a price decline, especially near support or
in an oversold condition, shows us visually that the market is reaching for a
bottom. In this case, the tail(s) indicates that lower prices are being rejected.
91

JWBK100-ch05.qxd 2/21/08 11:37 AM Page 92 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File:J
92 CANDLESTICK CHARTING
FIGURE 5.1 Bearish shadows FIGURE 5.2 Bullish Shadows
Source: TeleChart 2007® Source: TeleChart 2007®
The bears are covering their short positions and bulls are stepping into long
positions.
Smart Investor Tip
Beware of bad data! The presence of an unusually long shadow on a
chart may be the result of bad data. When you observe such a shadow,
it is advisable to check the intraday data to see if the lower time
frames show the same extreme price level shown on the daily bar. Also
consider consulting a second charting source to make sure the long
shadow is not bad data. For example, if you use TeleChart or
MetaStock for charting, you may consult Stockcharts.com (a free online
service) to verify that the data appears the same in their platform.
Charting services are not infallible, and periodically a bad bar will slip
through.
Tails at Support and Resistance
The presence of one or more tails at, or near, an area of support (bullish shad-
ows) or resistance (bearish shadows) is fairly common. Experienced traders pay
close attention to visible barriers on the chart and often execute trades near

JWBK100-ch05.qxd 2/21/08 11:37 AM Page 93 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File:J
Tails 93
those points. Support and resistance is discussed briefly here and is covered in
more detail in Part II.
When a stock that is rising encounters resistance, many traders use that
barrier as a target to exit long positions. In addition, bearish traders may enter
short positions near a resistance area in anticipation of a downside move.
(Once a decline begins, it may be more difficult for them to borrow the shares
to sell short.)
Price may retreat from resistance, leaving a single tail, or there may be two
or more tests of resistance in a short period of time. The tail indicates that the
bulls were able to rally price, pushing it up to resistance or even above it during
the session. However, they were not able to sustain the rally and the stock closed
well off its high.
Example
Figure 5.3 shows a daily chart of Con-Way Inc. (CNW). On April 25,
2007, a gravestone doji formed the April high (1). Price retreated and
then settled into a horizontal trading range for several weeks during
May. Price rallied up again at the end of May and tested the April
high. A bearish shadow formed on May 31, a shooting star (2a), and
another on June 1, a doji (2b), as resistance was tested. Higher highs
were made on those two days, which might appear to be bullish if
you were viewing a standard bar chart, and if you were not aware
that a prior peak (the April high) may act as resistance. On June 1 (2b)
price actually broke out just slightly above the April high intraday,
but closedbelow it, resulting in a failed breakout attempt. Price de-
clined for several weeks during June. Another uptrend in July took
price back up to that visible resistance area where, once again, bear-
ish shadows formed. On July 16 a bearish shadow formed (3a), and
back-to-back long-legged doji formed on July 18–19 (3b and 3c). On
July 18 (3b), price broke out above the resistance area intraday, but
again the bulls could not sustain the breakout and price closed well
off its high. These long-legged candles show the violent tug-of-war
that occurred intraday between the bulls and bears. The bulls finally
gave up, and price turned back down. A very strong and visible ceil-
ing (dotted line) is now seen on the chart. At some point in the future
it may be broken, but until that time, you can bet that traders will
react every time price approaches that area.
(continues)

JWBK100-ch05.qxd 2/21/08 11:37 AM Page 94 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File:J
94 CANDLESTICK CHARTING
Example (continued)
FIGURE 5.3 Bearish shadows formed at resistance
Source: TeleChart 2007®
triple top
A bearish The three parallel peaks that formed the April,
reversal pattern June, and July tops on the chart of CNW in Figure 5.3
that occurs sets up a larger bearish Western triple top pattern. Long
when three before the triple top was known in the Western hemi-
prominent, sphere, the Japanese had recognized it and named it the
parallel (or three mountain top. If the center peak is noticeably
nearly parallel) higher than the peaks on either side of it, the pattern is
peaks form in called a head-and-shoulders top in Western analysis. The
an uptrend. It is Japanese name for a head-and-shoulders top is a three
a valid reversal Buddha top.
pattern when Whereas the candlestick reversal patterns discussed
price closes in Chapter 3 provide primarily short-term signals, these
below the larger triple and head-and-shoulders tops have more
lowest point significant implications and may be followed by a trend
between the reversal.
three peaks.

JWBK100-ch05.qxd 2/21/08 11:37 AM Page 95 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File:J
Tails 95
Example
Figure 5.4 shows a daily chart of Coherent Inc. (COHR). An
intermediate-term uptrend that started from the March 2007 low ended
on April 17 with a bearish dark cloud cover pattern. Price then declined
back to the March low (dotted line) reversing the entire uptrend that
occurred during March–April. On May 16, as the March low was tested,
a bullish hammer formed. The hammer’s long tail shows us that the
bears used that visible support area to cover short positions, and the
bulls were willing to step into long positions. The bears were able to
drive price down intraday to near that support area again during the
three trading sessions following the hammer; however, the support held
up and a rally ensued.
FIGURE 5.4 Bullish shadows formed at support
Source: TeleChart 2007®
A single test of support may occur, leaving one bullish shadow, or
there may be more than one test of support. If there are several bullish
shadows, it shows that the bears are able to push the stock lower during the
day but the bulls step in each day at, or near, the support level and push the
price back up.

JWBK100-ch05.qxd 2/21/08 11:37 AM Page 96 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File:J
96 CANDLESTICK CHARTING
Summary:At the end of a price advance or decline,
the emergence of one or more bearish shadows (advance)
head-and- or bullish shadows (decline) is an indication that the
shoulders stock is attempting to put in a top or a bottom. This ac-
top
tion is often followed by a price reversal or a period of
A variation of a consolidation.
triple top
pattern in
which the Tails in Overbought or
center peak is
Oversold Conditions
noticeably
higher than
Although it is common to see tails form when price
the two peaks
approaches visible support and resistance areas, you’ll see
on either side.
plenty of tails form where there is no visible barrier on
It is a valid
the chart. Price need not be near a strong ceiling or floor
reversal
for a tail to form. Price may simply have moved too far
pattern when
too quickly in one direction, causing a short-term over-
price closes
bought (uptrend) or oversold (downtrend) condition.
below the
Overbought and oversold conditions are discussed in
neckline. The
Part II.
neckline is a
Just remember that when you see a tail(s) form,
support line
you should be prepared for price to move in the opposite
that connects
direction of the tail. Price may reverse the direction of
the swing lows
the trend or at least consolidate for a period of time.
on both sides
of the head.
Head-and-
shoulders tops
are fairly
reliable
patterns, and
they form
more
frequently
than triple
tops.

JWBK100-Ch06.qxd 2/21/08 11:38 AM Page 97 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File:
2
Part
East Meets West

JWBK100-Ch06.qxd 2/21/08 11:38 AM Page 98 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File:

JWBK100-Ch06.qxd 2/21/08 11:38 AM Page 99 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File:
6
Chapter
Price, Volume, and
Volatility
Learning to recognize and interpret the candlestick lines and patterns is the
first step, albeit an important one, on the path to putting candlesticks to
work. The knowledge you have already acquired in Part I should serve to
dramatically improve your chart analysis skills. There is plenty more to be
learned, though, in order to really master the power of candlestick charting. It
is time to blend them with Western technical analysis. After you finish reading
the next few chapters, you will have the additional tools you’ll need to evaluate
candlesticks in the context of the broader chart landscape, which can dramati-
cally enhance their effectiveness.
In the introduction it was suggested that once you learn candlesticks, you
may look at a standard bar chart and feel that it is incomplete. The same is true
of combining Eastern candlestick charting with Western technical analysis.
Once you learn how to put the two together, you may find that trying to ana-
lyze candlesticks without the aid of the bigger picture feels incomplete.
An introduction to Western technical analysis begins with learning about
the roles of price, volume, and volatility. Understanding these elements is cru-
cial to successful chart analysis, stock selection, and trade management. Ad-
vanced traders who are already familiar with these concepts may elect to skim
through this chapter or bypass it. However, traders who are developing their
Western technical analysis skills should be aware that each chapter in this book
builds upon the prior chapters, so it is best to read them in order and to spend
adequate time digesting each one.
99

JWBK100-Ch06.qxd 2/21/08 11:38 AM Page 100 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File
100 EAST MEETS WEST
Price
Price is the king of the chart. It is the purest measure of market sentiment. Price
action is a manifestation of the combined psychology of all market participants.
It tells us the perceived value of a security at a given time.
Price action provides the setups that we trade.
There are numerous price setups for traders to choose
from. For example, candlestick patterns provide setups,
setup
as do classic Western bar and chart patterns such as key
An identifiable
reversals and head-and-shoulders patterns.
price formation
A setup by itself cannot make you money; however, a
that presents a
strategy for trading it can. A trader may achieve consistent
potentially
success by learning to recognize one or more price setups
profitable
and devising a profitable strategy to trade the setup(s).
trading
A strategy should seek to enhance profits while limiting
opportunity.
risk.
Many novice traders get caught up in looking for the
perfect technical indicator and neglect to put sufficient em-
phasis on price. It is more effective to learn how to evaluate
strategy the price action and use indicators as complementary
A set of rules analysis tools. When an aspiring trader points out an indi-
and conditions cator signal to me, such as an overbought or oversold oscil-
that determine lator, and asks if I would execute a trade, I respond, “It
such factors as depends on what is happening with price.” I do not enter
what generates or exit a trade based solely on a signal from an indicator.
a signal and Think of technical analysis as a big toolbox. Just as candle-
how to enter, stick charting is one tool, indicators are another type of
manage, and tool. Successful trading results from employing a set of
exit the trade. tools rather than using each one in isolation.
Many technical indicators are derived from price.
Moving averages are calculated by averaging the price of
a stock over a designated period of time, for example, 20 days. Oscillators are a
group of indicators that measure the momentum of price. These indicators are
discussed later in this book. Technical indicators can be very useful; however, it
is still the price action itself that confirms or invalidates an indicator’s signal.
Part I of this book was devoted almost entirely to the discussion of price.
The candlestick lines and patterns are formed from the open, high, low, and
closing prices during a trading period. The candlestick reversal patterns must
follow a directional price move in order for their signals to have significance.
There is still plenty more discussion to come on price movement as you’ll
see in chapters 7 through 9, which cover trend analysis, gaps, support, and resis-
tance. But, first, let’s bring volume and volatility into the mix.

JWBK100-Ch06.qxd 2/21/08 11:38 AM Page 101 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File
Price, Volume, and Volatility 101
Volume
Volume is second in importance only to price as a technical analysis tool. Vol-
ume’s role in chart analysis will be referenced many times throughout this book.
So far, you have seen how it may play a role in the formation of certain candle-
stick patterns, as discussed in Chapter 3.
Volume provides a measure of the level of activity
by market participants in a specific stock or trading in-
strument. Every share of stock that changes hands be- volume
tween buyers and sellers serves to increase the volume for The number of
that trading period. The most commonly quoted time shares or con-
period for volume is daily; but it is also tracked for tracts that are
higher time frames, such as weekly, as well as for each in- traded during a
traday time frame. specified period
In addition to being tallied for individual stocks, of time.
volume is also measured for entire markets, such as the
New York Stock Exchange (NYSE). In the futures and
options markets, volume is represented in the number of contracts traded rather
than in shares.
Displaying Volume on the Chart
In addition to price data, vendors of charting software also supply volume, and
they may offer various ways to display it. I use the following displays of volume
in the TeleChart platform (see Figure 6.1).
Volume in Shares A field that displays the bar volume is inserted in the data
line above the chart. The bar volume indicates the number of shares traded for a
given period of time, for instance, during a daily trading session. In most
charting programs, volume is displayed in hundreds, so you’ll need to mentally
add two zeros to the end of the number.
Example
Figure 6.1 shows 2,807 shares traded on August 21, 2007, for Advent
Software Inc. (ADVS). Add two zeros to the end and you can see that
280,700 shares were traded that day.
Average Daily Volume A field is also inserted in the data line showing a
percentile ranking for average daily volume over the last 90 days. This ranking

JWBK100-Ch06.qxd 2/21/08 11:38 AM Page 102 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File
102 EAST MEETS WEST
FIGURE 6.1 Volume may be displayed in various ways
Source: TeleChart 2007®
provides a quick gauge of the stock’s liquidity over the past few months by
indicating how heavily the stock is traded compared to all other stocks listed on
the major U.S. exchanges. The lower the average daily volume, the more thinly
traded the stock.
Example
In Figure 6.1, the number 62 in the data line indicates that Advent
Software currently trades more volume than 62 percent of stocks. Most
of the stocks that I trade rank in the 50 to 99 percentile, which equates
to about 125,000 shares per day or higher. Novice traders may elect to
start with more heavily traded stocks to avoid problems with order fills
and excessive slippage. For instance, stocks in the 70 to 99 percentile
trade a minimum of about half a million shares per day.
Volume Bars Volume can be plotted as a histogram (a bar graph) that
provides a visual representation of each trading period’s volume. The histogram
allows a trader to quickly analyze the pattern or trend of volume. The volume

JWBK100-Ch06.qxd 2/21/08 11:38 AM Page 103 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File
Price, Volume, and Volatility 103
bars are colored red or green, which corresponds to the current time period’s
closing price. A red volume bar indicates a lower close than the prior trading
period, and a green bar indicates a higher close. Figure 6.1 shows the volume
bars plotted in the panel below the chart window.
Smart Investor Tip
It is a common practice to plot a moving average over an indicator in
order to smooth the data. I was first introduced to the idea of plotting
a moving average of volume in John Bollinger’s book Bollinger on
Bollinger Bands(McGraw-Hill, 2002). Mr. Bollinger referenced using a
50-period simple moving average, but I prefer a shorter 30-period as
demonstrated in Figure 6.1. The moving average is overlaid on the
volume histogram in the panel below the chart window. This technique
makes it very easy to see when volume is above or below average
compared to the last 30 days. Experiment with different settings if
you’d like; however, I would not suggest using a length of fewer than
20 periods for this purpose.
Analyzing Volume Patterns and Trends
The amount of volume that transpires during one or more trading periods can
tell a story about the force behind the price movement. Consider the following
examples:
• If heavy volume accompanies the formation of a bullish candlestick
pattern, such as a hammer or a bullish engulfing pattern, it helps con-
firm that the stock may be putting in a bottom.
• An upside breakout after a period of consolidation is usually accompa-
nied by heavy volume. In fact, the breakout is suspect if not and may be
a false breakout. Volume attracts more buyers and is needed to propel
the stock higher. Heavy volume may also accompany a downside break;
however, it is not as significant because the market can continue to fall
under its own weight.
• After an upward move, if price pulls back or consolidates on diminish-
ing volume, it is usually an indication that short-term traders are taking
profits after a directional move rather than a large number of market
participants exiting the stock. Another upside move often follows in
such cases.

JWBK100-Ch06.qxd 2/21/08 11:38 AM Page 104 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File
104 EAST MEETS WEST
These are just a few of the many instances where utilizing volume can
provide insight into the psychology of traders. Incorporating volume in the ex-
amination of price movement can dramatically improve your stock selection
and chart analysis skills.
The preceding examples are instances where fairly short-term events are
analyzed. It is important to distinguish between analyzing a short-term vol-
ume pattern and a longer-term volume pattern or trend. If you are examining
the volume pattern over the past several trading periods, volume can be ana-
lyzed from one bar to the next, providing a short-term picture. For instance,
if after an upward move price pulls back on diminishing volume, in such a
case you are looking at the price-volume relationship from one bar to the next
as price pulls back. By my definition, diminishing volume occurs when most
of the volume bars during the period being analyzed either drop below the
moving average of volume or decline in a downward stepping pattern (see
Figure 6.2, left).
There may also be times when you wish to evaluate the volume pattern
over a longer period of time. For example, you may need to gauge the
strength of the longer trend, or analyze the price-volume relationship of a
large chart pattern. In cases where the bigger picture of volume is to be evalu-
ated, look beyond the past few volume bars and instead look at the volume
peaks (see Figure 6.2, right).
Short-Term Analysis Figure 6.3 shows a daily chart of Calgon Carbon Corp.
(CCC). Price was in an uptrend for several weeks during May–June 2007. The
dotted lines correspond to the volume patterns during pullbacks within the
trend. Each time price pulled back for a few days, volume declined with it.
After a directional move, when price pulls back or consolidates accompanied
by diminishing volume, it may offer traders an opportunity to get aboard a
FIGURE 6.2 Analysis of volume bars vs. volume peaks

JWBK100-Ch06.qxd 2/21/08 11:38 AM Page 105 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File
Price, Volume, and Volatility 105
FIGURE 6.3 Volume declined as price pulled back
Source: TeleChart 2007®
trending stock. Rather than chasing the stock as it is rallying (or declining in a
downtrend), the trader can use the interruption of the trend to enter at a point
where an initial protective stop can be placed closer to the entry price.
Longer-Term Analysis When analyzed in conjunction with price action, volume
can help us gauge the strength (or weakness) of a trend. Table 6.1 summarizes the
Table 6.1 Price-Volume Relationships
Price-Volume Implication
Relationship for the Trend
Price is rising Strong Uptrend
Volume is rising
Price is rising Uptrend Weakening
Volume is declining
Price is declining Strong Downtrend
Volume is rising
Price is declining Downtrend Weakening
Volume is declining

JWBK100-Ch06.qxd 2/21/08 11:38 AM Page 106 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File
106 EAST MEETS WEST
general price-volume relationships that can be gleaned from
intermediate- and long-term trends. The emphasis here is
divergence on the trend of price and volume. The focus should be on
A scenario the peaks, with less regard for each individual bar between
where the the peaks.
price of an Figure 6.4 shows a daily chart of Riverbed Tech-
asset moves in nologies Inc. (RVBD). During May–July 2007 price
the opposite was in an uptrend. Notice that volume was heavy dur-
direction of an ing the rallies that occurred early in the trend. As the
indicator. When trend matured, even though price was still forming
price continues higher peaks, the level of market participation had dimin-
to form higher ished, as evidenced by the volume pattern (declining
peaks in an dotted line). Although this type of price-volume pattern
uptrend, while does not guarantee that the trend will change direction,
the peaks in it does indicate a divergence between price and volume,
an indicator which should elicit caution among traders who hold
begin to long positions. On July 24, price closed below a strong
decline, it sig- up trendline accompanied by heavy volume, which
nals a negative sent a stronger message that the trend direction may be
divergence, changing.
and the up- If you choose to expand your study of Western
trend may be technical analysis, you’ll inevitably be introduced to
weakening. many Western continuation and reversal patterns. There
When price is are some small Western bar patterns, such as key reversals
making lower and the inside and outside days referenced in Chapter 3.
bottoms in a Flags and pennants also form in a short amount of time.
downtrend, Many of the Western patterns, though, are larger patterns
but the indica- that form over a period of several weeks or months. It is
tor bottoms helpful to study the trend of volume as those large pat-
are rising, it terns form. For instance, a head-and shoulders is a fairly
indicates a reliable top reversal pattern. An ideal head-and-shoulders
positive diver- has the following volume pattern: volume is strong as the
genceand an left shoulder is formed; volume is usually still strong as
early warning the head is formed; volume declines noticeably as price
that the down- pushes up to form the peak of the right shoulder.
trend may be Technical analysis is a broad field of study, one
weakening. area of which includes Western chart patterns, such as
head-and-shoulders, triangles, and wedges, just to
name a few. Many technical analysis books touch on
this topic, but none that I have found delve into this area as thoroughly as

JWBK100-Ch06.qxd 2/21/08 11:38 AM Page 107 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File
Price, Volume, and Volatility 107
FIGURE 6.4 Divergence between price and volume preceded a
breakdown
Source: TeleChart 2007®
Thomas Bulkowski does in his books. His latest book Getting Started in
Chart Patterns (John Wiley & Sons, 2006) is an excellent resource for those
who wish to add an understanding of chart patterns to their knowledge base.
Example
Figure 6.5 shows a head-and-shoulders top on the daily chart of
Continental Airlines (CAL). Volume was above average as a peak
formed the left shoulder (this pattern actually had a double left
shoulder). Price pulled back and then rallied again on above-average
volume to form the head. As price rose up to form the right shoulder,
volume remained below average. There was not enough momentum
to push price to a new high.
(continues)

JWBK100-Ch06.qxd 2/21/08 11:38 AM Page 108 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File
108 EAST MEETS WEST
Example (continued)
FIGURE 6.5 Volume may provide confirmation of a chart pattern
Source: TeleChart 2007®
Volatility
High volatility means that a stock’s price can change dra-
matically over a short period of time in either direction.
volatility Low volatility means that a stock’s price does not fluctu-
The tendency ate dramatically. Volatility does not just apply to stock
for price to prices, but to other trading instruments and markets as
fluctuate. well.
Volatility is not static—it may be highly variable
over time. There is typically an ebb and flow that can
be seen on a chart. Periods of low volatility are often followed by periods of
high volatility, and vice versa. Traders must learn to recognize when volatility
moves to one extreme or the other. Great trading opportunities can be found
by implementing adequate focus on volatility.

JWBK100-Ch06.qxd 2/21/08 11:38 AM Page 109 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File
Price, Volume, and Volatility 109
Smart Investor Tip
Bollinger Bands can be effective for drawing attention to periods of
low or high volatility. The setting I use for this indicator is that which
is recommended by its creator, John Bollinger: a 20-period simple
moving average of price with the bands plotted at two standard
deviations from the moving average.
Example
When price makes a directional move, the Bollinger Bands will diverge
(expand), indicating a period of higher volatility. When price pulls back
or moves sideways, the bands will converge (contract). If price moves
sideways long enough, the bands will constrict around price, sometimes
very tightly. This is referred to as a Bollinger squeeze.This contraction-
expansion phenomenon can be seen on the daily chart of Immersion
Corp. (IMMR) shown in Figure 6.6.
FIGURE 6.6 Contraction is followed by expansion and vice versa
Source: TeleChart 2007®

JWBK100-Ch06.qxd 2/21/08 11:38 AM Page 110 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File
110 EAST MEETS WEST
The term volatility may conjure up negative thoughts for those who do
not understand or respect its role. A certain amount of volatility is necessary in
order for stocks, and markets, to survive. And yet too much volatility can be
frustrating and treacherous for traders, especially for those who do not yet have
a lot of experience trading a volatile stock or market. As is the case with most
trading-related concepts, it is usually not so much the volatility itself that is
dangerous or risky, but rather the trader!
Measures of Volatility
There are various methods of measuring volatility. One measure is standard de-
viation, which measures the dispersion of data from the mean. In other words,
it compares a stock’s current volatility to its average. Bollinger Bands are con-
structed using standard deviation. Beta is another commonly used measure,
which compares a stock’s volatility to that of the market. The S&P 500 large-
cap index is commonly used as a market benchmark.
After you have developed a strong foundation in charting, you may wish
to expand your study of beta and standard deviation, or other measures of
volatility, in order to further your understanding of this important concept. For
now, though, consider using the logarithmic scale as a quick and easy method
of gauging a stock’s volatility.
Logarithmic Scale
Prices are displayed on the vertical axis (y-axis) on a chart. In most charting pro-
grams, horizontal division lines called gridlines are displayed in the chart win-
dow. They line up with the price scale (see Figure 6.7).
FIGURE 6.7 Logarithmic scale
Source: TeleChart 2007®

JWBK100-Ch06.qxd 2/21/08 11:38 AM Page 111 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File
Price, Volume, and Volatility 111
There are two commonly used methods of scaling: arithmetic and logarith-
mic. The arithmetic scale displays the price change from one horizontal division
line to the next in equal increments (points). The logarithmic scale displays the
price change as a percentage. The scaling method you choose is up to you. Many
seasoned traders use logarithmic for charting stocks, which is also my preference.
When the logarithmic scale is selected, the percentage change between each
gridline should be displayed in the chart window of your charting program, for
example, below the price column as shown in Figure 6.7. That percentage indi-
cates that if price moves up or down one gridline, it is a move of approximately x
percent for that stock, with x being the percentage indicated, for instance, 1.29
percent. The percentage shown is not static; it indicates the current volatility.
That percentage can change over time as volatility increases or decreases.
The percentage between the gridlines can provide a gauge of a stock’s cur-
rent volatility. It can also be used to compare the stock’s volatility to other
stocks. Generally speaking, the higher the percentage displayed, the higher the
current volatility of the stock, and vice versa.
Smart Investor Tip
In order to ensure that you are making a proper comparison, be sure to
use a consistent horizontal compression (zoom) for all the stocks being
analyzed. In TeleChart, zoom 5 shows about five months of data on a
daily chart. Don’t compare one stock using zoom 5 to another using
zoom 3, which shows about 10 months of data, because the percentage
adjusts as the stock is compressed. If your charting program allows for
vertical compression, that can also impact the scale.
Looks can be deceiving. What may appear visuallyto be about the same dis-
tance move on the chart of two different stocks can actually be significantly dif-
ferent from a percentagestandpoint. If you have ever been shocked by the change
in your unrealized profit or loss on a trade after what appeared to be a small move
on the chart, it was a volatile stock—or at least a volatile period for that stock.
Example
Figure 6.8 shows a daily chart of Western Digital Corp. (WDC) from
April through mid-July 2007. The stock gained about 40 percent during
that time. The daily chart of Hoku Scientific (HOKU) in Figure 6.9 looks
like it had a similar run up; however, it gained almost 250 percent during
that uptrend. Clearly, HOKU, at approximately 11 percent between
gridlines, was a much more volatile stock than WDC, at approximately 3
percent between gridlines.
(continues)

JWBK100-Ch06.qxd 2/21/08 11:38 AM Page 112 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File
112 EAST MEETS WEST
Example (continued)
FIGURE 6.8 Stock gained approximately 40 percent in about
four months
Source: TeleChart 2007®
FIGURE 6.9 Stock gained approximately 250% in about two months
Source: TeleChart 2007®

JWBK100-Ch06.qxd 2/21/08 11:38 AM Page 113 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File
Price, Volume, and Volatility 113
Smart Investor Tip
There are times when it is helpful to view the arithmetic scale, though,
for example, when viewing market indicators such as the McClellan
Summation Index where the index has a baseline of zero. Additionally,
in some cases when checking for a price retracement, it is best to view
the arithmetic scale. Thus, it is wise to become familiar with the
method in your charting program for shifting from logarithmic to
arithmetic and back, so you can quickly change the scale if needed.
As you continue your review of the remaining chapters, reference will be
made several times to a stock’s volatility, for example, when determining
whether the reward of a trade outweighs the risk, or when determining if a
stock is better suited for swing trading or for a long-term position.

JWBK100-Ch06.qxd 2/21/08 11:38 AM Page 114 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File

JWBK100-Ch07.qxd 2/21/08 11:39 AM Page 115 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File
7
Chapter
Trend Analysis
The primary role of technical analysis is the study of trends. You may be
familiar with some of the well-known axioms that have arisen over the
decades regarding trends, such as: “The trend is your friend” and “Don’t
fight the trend.” The phenomenon of trends is one of the major organizing
principles of technical analysis. In order to become a skilled chartist, it is essen-
tial to learn how to identify and evaluate trends.
Numerous trading strategies have been developed
around the fact that markets tend to move in trends.
trend
Trend followers strive to identify a new trend as early as
The direction
possible in its formation and ride that trend until it runs
of a price
out of steam and changes direction. Therefore, much of
move. A trend
technical analysis is devoted to the identification of
may move up
trends and gauging their strength or weakness so traders
or down and is
can implement the appropriate trading strategies.
often classified
A trend signifies the direction that the market is
by its duration
moving. In addition to the trend direction, traders also
as either short,
attempt to measure the duration, magnitude, and mo-
intermediate,
mentum of the trend. These concepts will be covered in
or long term.
this chapter.
115

JWBK100-Ch07.qxd 2/21/08 11:39 AM Page 116 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File
116 EAST MEETS WEST
Trend Direction
Markets move in trends. A stock or market may trend up or it may trend down.
There may also be periods in which price moves sideways. While it might seem as
if the direction of the trend should be quite obvious, that is not always the case,
since trends do not develop in a linear fashion. The following discussion addresses
some technical tools and methods to help determine the direction of a trend.
Moving Averages
The moving average is one of the oldest and most widely used technical indica-
tors. Moving averages are trend-following indicators designed to catch major
price moves. They are most effective when used in trending markets and fairly
ineffective when price moves into a prolonged trading range. Moving averages
are not precise timing indicators. While they do a good job of pointing out the
direction of the trend, moving averages “lag” price, so they will be late at calling
the turning points when a trend changes direction.
There are various ways to utilize moving averages.
For the purposes of this discussion, we’ll focus on the
moving role of moving averages in helping determine the direc-
average tion of the trend. In Chapter 9, you’ll learn how they
A trend- also play a role as support and resistance. Novice traders
following are encouraged to pursue additional study of moving av-
indicator that erages, as well as other technical indicators that are be-
smoothes out yond the scope of this book.
price action by A trend does not develop in a straight line. Price
averaging price typically zigs and zags its way across the chart’s land-
over a desig- scape. Plotting a moving average over price helps to
nated period smooth out those fluctuations and distortions that are
of time. inherent in most trends. It provides a clearer picture of
the primary direction of the trend (see Figure 7.1).
Smart Investor Tip
As a general rule, a rising moving average indicates an uptrend, and a
declining moving average indicates a downtrend. Think of a moving
average as sort of a moving trend line.
In order to construct a simple moving average of price, the first step is to
calculate the average. An average (or mean) of a set of values is determined by

JWBK100-Ch07.qxd 2/21/08 11:39 AM Page 117 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File
Trend Analysis 117
summing the values and dividing the result by the total number of values in the
set. For stocks, the closing price is most often used in the calculation. To pro-
duce a moving average, the average is recalculated each new period. The newest
bar’s closing price is added to the calculation, and the oldest bar’s closing price is
dropped. The process is repeated with each new bar resulting in a line that rep-
resents a moving average of price.
Example
To compute a 20-period simple moving average, the closing prices of the
last 20 bars are added together and divided by 20. When a new bar
forms, the closing price of the 20th bar is dropped from the calculation
and the closing price of the new bar is added.
Fortunately, modern charting programs do all the calculating for us.
Traders need only to select the length for the moving average, and it will be
plotted in the chart window, as shown in Figure 7.1.
One or more moving averages may be plotted in the chart window. The
10- and 20-period are popular short-term moving averages. Longer moving
FIGURE 7.1 20-period simple moving average smoothes out
the fluctuations in price
Source: TeleChart 2007®

JWBK100-Ch07.qxd 2/21/08 11:39 AM Page 118 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File
118 EAST MEETS WEST
averages will lag farther behind the current price, since there are more values in-
cluded in their calculations. The 50-period is a popular intermediate-term mov-
ing average. Price often finds support at or near this moving average on a deep
pullback in an uptrend, and vice versa in a downtrend. The 200-period is a long-
term moving average that is watched closely by traders. Price often finds support
(or resistance) at or near this moving average during a correction of a trend.
Smart Investor Tip
At a minimum, I suggest plotting a 20-period simple moving average
of price to help determine the direction of the current trend. The 20-
period moving average represents approximately one month of trading
on a daily chart and has proven to be a robust setting. It also tends to
perform well on other time frames. As a general rule, price will stay
above the 20-period moving average most of the time during an
uptrend, and below it most of the time while in a downtrend.
Peaks and Bottoms
As price moves up and down in the general direction of the trend, a series of
peaks and bottoms is formed on the chart. A peak is formed after a price ad-
vance when price stops making higher highs and makes a lower high. A peak
includes three bars, with the middle bar’s high being higher than those of the
two bars on either side of it (Figure 7.2). A bottom is formed after a price de-
cline when price stops making lower lows and makes a higher low. It includes
three bars, with the middle bar’s lowbeing lower than the bars on either side of
it (Figure 7.3). Peaks and bottoms show where price turned, resulting in at least
a temporary change in direction.
FIGURE 7.2 Peak (swing high) FIGURE 7.3 Bottom (swing low)

JWBK100-Ch07.qxd 2/21/08 11:39 AM Page 119 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File
Trend Analysis 119
A peak is often referred to as a swing high and a bottom as a swing low.
These events show us the turning points of price moves. Some of the swing
points will be prominent, while others will be minor. The prominent forma-
tions will draw your attention to the direction of the trend, as shown in Figure
7.4. An uptrend is comprised of a series of higher swing highs and higher swing
lows. Conversely, in a downtrend, lower swing highs and lower swing lows are
evident. You’ll see several examples of peaks and bottoms on the charts shown
in Figures 7.6 through 7.11.
Candlesticks are excellent for short-term timing signals. After a direc-
tional price move, it is fairly common to see a candlestick reversal pattern form
at the swing high or the swing low. Even if no reversal pattern forms, you’ll of-
ten see other indications that the move is running out of steam, such as spin-
ning tops or long shadows.
Trend Lines
A trend line is one of the simplest charting tools available; but don’t let its sim-
plicity take away from its value. Trend lines can be very helpful for determining
the trend direction. Most charting programs provide a trend line–drawing fea-
ture, allowing users to draw lines in the chart window.
Classic trend lines are drawn on the chart connecting the turning points of
the peaks or bottoms. The trend line should touch as close as possible to the
FIGURE 7.4 Prominent peaks and bottoms (circled) help define
the uptrend
Source: TeleChart 2007®

JWBK100-Ch07.qxd 2/21/08 11:39 AM Page 120 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File
120 EAST MEETS WEST
actual turning point (the high of a peak bar or the low of
a bottom bar). There will be times when the trend line
trend line will not quite touch the pivot, or will breach one or more
A straight line bars. It is okay to clip one or more shadows if it means
drawn on a touching the trend line to more turning points; however,
chart to deter- be careful about drawing the line through one or more
mine the direc- real bodies as doing so may result in an invalid trend line.
tion and slope There must be at least two turning points (touches)
of the current to draw a valid trend line. Ideally, there are three or more
trend, or to touches on the line. Trend lines with three or more
identify the touches are more significant than those with only two.
boundaries of A common mistake traders make is attempting to
a consolidation draw a trend line across the highs or lows of individual
area. price bars and neglecting to touch the line to two or more
peaks or bottoms. The result is in an invalid trend line.
Example
Figure 7.5 shows two trend lines. The lower trend line is valid because it
connects the turning points of three rising bottoms. It was necessary and
acceptable to clip the lower shadow of the second bottom in order to
touch the third bottom. The steeper trend line is not valid because it
touches rising lows, not rising bottoms.
FIGURE 7.5 Valid versus invalid trend line

JWBK100-Ch07.qxd 2/21/08 11:39 AM Page 121 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File
Trend Analysis 121
In an uptrend, the primary trend line is a rising support line drawn be-
low, and connecting, the rising bottoms (see Figure 7.6). Once an uptrend
starts to emerge, there must be two bottoms formed on the chart before a
support trend line can be drawn. You may also be able to draw a parallel, ris-
ing resistance line above the rising peaks. It is common for price to rise in a
channel.
In a downtrend, the primary trend line is a declining resistance line drawn
above and connecting the declining peaks (see Figure 7.7). You may also be able
to draw a parallel, declining support trend line below the declining bottoms if
the stock is descending in a channel.
As the trend progresses, the primary trend line (and the parallel chan-
nel line if applicable) can be adjusted slightly and extended. Sometimes there
will be more than one strong support or resistance trend line. In the example
of Immucor Inc. (BLUD) shown in Figure 7.7, the downtrend accelerated in
June 2007, resulting in a sharper angle of the declining peaks. Both resis-
tance lines shown are valid. The tighter line is more indicative of the most
recent price action and will be broken more quickly if the trend changes
direction.
FIGURE 7.6 In an uptrend, the primary trendline connects the
rising bottoms (circled)
Source: TeleChart 2007®

JWBK100-Ch07.qxd 2/21/08 11:39 AM Page 122 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File
122 EAST MEETS WEST
FIGURE 7.7 In a downtrend, the primary trendline connects the
declining peaks (circled)
Source: TeleChart 2007®
Uptrend (Bullish)
Now let’s combine the three methods mentioned previously for determining
trend direction: moving averages, peaks and bottoms, and trend lines. The daily
chart of Shaw Group Inc. (SGR) in Figure 7.8 illustrates a stock in an uptrend,
which can be identified by the following criteria:
• It consists primarily of rising peaks and rising bottoms.
• Price remains above the 20-period simple moving average throughout
most of the uptrend.
• A rising support trend line can be drawn below the prominent rising
bottoms.
In an uptrend, the magnitude of the upward swings is usually more than
that of the pullbacks. The upswings typically consist of predominantly bullish
candles. Therefore, once an uptrend has been established, it is usually best to
trade in the direction of the trend, which means trading primarily long posi-
tions. In this type of environment, look for opportunities to buy on pullbacks
(dips) or corrections in the trend.

JWBK100-Ch07.qxd 2/21/08 11:39 AM Page 123 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File
Trend Analysis 123
FIGURE 7.8 Stock in an uptrend
Source: TeleChart 2007®
Smart Investor Tip
Be careful trading against a strong uptrend. You’ll probably do much
better taking long positions than you would trying to sell short off the
rallies. The momentum is upward and such price action will attract
more buying. Selling short in this environment is like swimming
against the tide, and if done at all, it is a practice best left to
experienced traders.
Downtrend (Bearish)
The daily chart of Retail Ventures Inc. (RVI) in Figure 7.9 shows a stock in a
downtrend, which can be identified by the following criteria:
• It consists primarily of declining peaks and declining bottoms.
• Price remains below the 20-period simple moving average throughout
most of the downtrend.
• A declining resistance trend line can be drawn above the prominent
declining peaks.

JWBK100-Ch07.qxd 2/21/08 11:39 AM Page 124 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File
124 EAST MEETS WEST
FIGURE 7.9 Stock in a downtrend
Source: TeleChart 2007®
Once a downtrend has been established, it is usually best to trade in the
direction of the trend, which means trading primarily on the short side. In this
type of environment, look for opportunities to sell the rallies. Many novice
traders get burned attempting to “nail the bottom” of a downtrend. They take
long positions when they see a single bottom form in the downtrend, thinking
it will be the one that finally reverses the trend. Often, it does not, and the re-
sult is a losing trade. Countertrend trading is a practice best left to experienced
traders.
Example
The daily chart of Investools Inc. (SWIM) in Figure 7.10 shows how
several single bottoms that formed in May–June 2007 (identified by
the short horizontal lines) were unsuccessful at reversing the
downtrend. Finally, in July, a double bottom formed (dotted line),
setting up a stronger reversal pattern.
(continues)

JWBK100-Ch07.qxd 2/21/08 11:39 AM Page 125 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File
Trend Analysis 125
Example (continued)
FIGURE 7.10 Trying to nail a single bottom in a downtrend can
be a frustrating and costly endeavor
Source: TeleChart 2007®
Smart Investor Tip
Traders who do not sell short should wait for a downtrend to show
signs of solid bottoming action to trade the long side. For example,
watch for the appearance of a double, head-and-shoulders, or rounded
bottom to form. An alternative to shorting that allows traders and
investors to profit during a down market (the ProShares exchange-
traded funds) will be discussed in Chapter 10.
Sideways (No Trend)
When a stock moves sideways, it is a condition referred to as consolidation. The
daily chart of Dryships (DRYS) in Figure 7.11 illustrates a stock that is consoli-
dating, which can be identified by the following criteria:
• Price is confined within a trading range. There is no clear direction in-
dicated by the peaks and bottoms.

JWBK100-Ch07.qxd 2/21/08 11:39 AM Page 126 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File
126 EAST MEETS WEST
FIGURE 7.11 Stock moving sideways (consolidating)
Source: TeleChart 2007®
• The 20-period simple moving average flattens out and may whipsaw.
Price may cross above and below the moving average several times.
• The sideways price action can often be trapped between support and
resistance trend lines. The trend lines may be parallel, as shown in
Figure 7.11, or they may converge in the form of a triangle (refer to
Figure 7.13).
Smart Investor Tip
It is usually easier to trade in a trending market than while the market
is confined to a trading range, which can be a frustrating and costly
time for traders using trend-following strategies. For some traders it
is best to stand aside during these phases. Others are able to adapt
by shifting to strategies that work in a trendless environment rather
than trying to pursue a trend-following method and getting
whipsawed.

JWBK100-Ch07.qxd 2/21/08 11:39 AM Page 127 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File
Trend Analysis 127
Trend Duration
There are three classifications of trend duration that have been widely accepted
in Western technical analysis: long, intermediate, and short term. Traders should
understand the definition of these trends and be able to identify them on a chart.
Most of the examples shown in the following discussion represent an up-
trending market. However, these technical events also occur in downtrending
markets.
Long-Term Trend
The long-term trend may also be referred to as the major or primary trend.
Some sources state that a long-term trend is one that is in effect for at least a
year. However, many traders, myself included, consider a trend of six to eight
months or longer to fall under the category of long term.
A long-term trend may be strung together by a series of shorter, intermediate-
term trends. Price may move in the direction of the long-term trend for several
weeks or months at a time, followed by an interruption of the trend that may
also last for weeks or months. Those interruptions may be in the form of con-
solidation (sideways movement) or a correction in which price moves against
the long-term trend.
Example
Figure 7.12 shows a daily chart of O2 Micro International Ltd.
(OIIM). The chart is compressed so that over a year of price data can
be observed. It is clear that the stock is in a long-term uptrend. Price
consolidated for about four months from December 2006 through
early April 2007. Price swung back and forth, forming the ceiling
(resistance) and floor (support) of a trading range. Parallel, horizontal
trend lines can be drawn to define the consolidation area. The 20-
period simple moving average (SMA) flattened out during those
months. Price broke out from the trading range on April 5, resuming
the long-term uptrend. The stock consolidated again from May
through June. That consolidation was tighter than the prior
consolidation. The 20-period SMA flattened out again until price
broke out above the ceiling of the trading range on June 29, once
again resuming the long-term uptrend.
(continues)

JWBK100-Ch07.qxd 2/21/08 11:39 AM Page 128 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File
128 EAST MEETS WEST
Example (continued)
FIGURE 7.12 Long-term uptrend was interrupted by periods of
consolidation
Source: TeleChart 2007®
In some cases, the consolidation takes the form of a triangle. Instead of
parallel lines, converging support and resistance trend lines can be drawn to de-
fine the price action.
Example
Figure 7.13 shows a daily chart of Honeywell International (HON). A
long-term uptrend was interrupted for several weeks during March–
April 2007. Price consolidated in the form of a symmetrical triangle
swinging back and forth for weeks and making no headway in the
direction of the long-term trend. The 20-period SMA flattened out as
price coiled into the apex of the triangle. Finally, price broke out from
the triangle in mid-April 2007 and accelerated with a continuation gap
on April 20 (gaps are discussed in Chapter 8).
(continues)

JWBK100-Ch07.qxd 2/21/08 11:39 AM Page 129 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File
Trend Analysis 129
Example (continued)
FIGURE 7.13 Triangle formed during a long-term uptrend
Source: TeleChart 2007®
The trend will not always resume after a period of
consolidation. In some cases, what appears to be consoli- triangle
dation when it forms at the right edge of the chart will A chart pattern
turn out to be topping (uptrend) or bottoming (down- that forms when
trend) action that precedes a trend reversal. If a stock in price moves
an uptrend closes below the floor of a trading range sideways. The
rather than breaking out above it, the trend may be swings across
changing direction, and vice versa in a downtrend. the consolida-
In addition to periods of consolidation, as a long- tion area tighten
term trend develops there may also be times when price as price moves
turns back against the trend correcting a portion of the toward the apex
prior move. A correction may also be referred to as a of the triangle.
retracement. Price retracements of one third to one half There are three
of the prior trend are common. A retracement of two types of trian-
thirds of the prior trend may also be seen. If price cor- gles: ascending,
rects beyond two thirds of the prior trend, it is consid- descending, and
ered to be a trend reversal, and the prior trend is symmetrical.
unlikely to resume.

JWBK100-Ch07.qxd 2/21/08 11:39 AM Page 130 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File
130 EAST MEETS WEST
The use of Fibonacci retracement levels has become increasingly popular
since the advent of mainstream charting programs. Fibonacci refers to a se-
quence of numbers discovered by Leonardo Fibonacci, a thirteenth-century
mathematician. Common Fibonacci retracement levels are 38.2 percent, 50
percent, and 61.8 percent of the prior trend. The 38.2 percent number is often
rounded to 38 percent and corresponds fairly closely to the one-third retrace-
ment discussed previously; 61.8 percent is often rounded to 62 percent and cor-
responds closely to the two-thirds retracement.
Example
Figure 7.14 shows a daily chart of Trinity Industries Inc. (TRN). After
advancing for a few months, price retraced part of the prior uptrend,
stopping at the 61.8 percent Fibonacci level. The uptrend resumed for
several more weeks until late February 2007. Price corrected again
before resuming the long-term uptrend.
FIGURE 7.14 Long-term uptrend was interrupted by price
corrections
Source: TeleChart 2007®

JWBK100-Ch07.qxd 2/21/08 11:39 AM Page 131 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File
Trend Analysis 131
Smart Investor Tip
Many of the mainstream charting programs now include a Fibonacci
retracement grid, making it quick and easy to measure the magnitude
of a retracement.
The long-term trend resumes after interruptions of the trend until it fi-
nally tops out (uptrend) or bottoms out (downtrend) and reverses direction. Al-
ways assume that the prevailing trend is in force until there is clear evidence to
the contrary.
Intermediate-Term Trend
An intermediate-term trend may also be called the secondary trend. It typically
lasts from several weeks to several months. An intermediate-term trend is usu-
ally strung together by a series of shorter-term price swings that are separated by
brief pauses, pullbacks, or periods of minor consolidation.
Recall from discussion in Chapters 3 and 4 that the candlestick line tells a
story of investor psychology. When you look at a candlestick line on the daily
chart after the session has ended, you see the end result of the intraday battle
between the bulls and bears. But if you wish to see the precise details of how
that battle unfolded throughout the trading session, you need to shift down to
an intraday time frame to see more price data. Take that same concept and ap-
ply it to trends. The long-term trend gives a big picture view of price action.
But if you wish to see how that trend is developing, you’ll need to analyze the
smaller trends within the larger trend.
There will be times when you’ll observe a smooth long-term trend that only
has minor interruptions; but that will be more the exception than the rule. More
often, when you take a closer look, you’ll see that the long-term trend zigs and
zags its way up or down. If you analyze a typical long-term trend, you’ll usually
find that it is really several intermediate-term trends and periods of consolidation
strung together. An intermediate-term trend can move in the direction of the
long-term trend, or it can move against it. Look again at Figure 7.14. The upward
moves each lasted for several weeks (intermediate-term uptrends) separated by
corrections that also lasted for several weeks (intermediate-term downtrends).
Short-Term Trend
If you take the analysis a level lower, you’ll find that there are yet shorter trends.
A short-term trend may also be called a minor trendor a price swing.It typically

JWBK100-Ch07.qxd 2/21/08 11:39 AM Page 132 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File
132 EAST MEETS WEST
lasts from a few days to a couple of weeks, but not usually more than about
three weeks. There may be several such swings within a larger up- or down-
trend. The short-term trend may move in the direction of the larger trend, or
against the trend (countertrend).
Example
Figure 7.15 provides a closer look at one of the intermediate-term
uptrends that formed on the Trinity Industries Inc. (TRN) chart
(October–November 2006). A closer look at that uptrend shows that it
is actually comprised of several short upward and downward price
swings.
FIGURE 7.15 Short-term trends within an intermediate-term
trend
Source: TeleChart 2007®
Smart Investor Tip
Swing trading is a trading style that has become increasingly popular
over the years. Swing traders take advantage of the short-term moves
to buy the dips and sell the rallies, or vice versa.

JWBK100-Ch07.qxd 2/21/08 11:39 AM Page 133 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File
Trend Analysis 133
Pay Attention to the Major Market Averages
Traders should not only analyze the charts of the individual stocks they trade,
but they should be aware of the long-, intermediate- and short-term trends of
the major market averages. The tone of the broad market can have a strong im-
pact on individual stocks. In the United States, the three best-known averages
include: the Dow Jones Industrial Average, the S&P 500 Index, and the Nasdaq
Composite Index.
While the direction of short- and intermediate-term trends of the averages
can be influenced by rumor, news, and the sentiment of market participants,
the long-term trend of the market is driven primarily by fundamental factors.
The major trend reflects the condition of the U.S. economy and may also be
impacted by global markets.
A long-term uptrend that occurs on an index chart is referred to as bull
market and a long-term downtrend is called a bear market. As of this writing,
the broad market was still in a long-term uptrend (see Figure 7.16). During
July–August 2007, however, the major averages experienced a bull market cor-
rection (see Figure 7.17) of about 10 percent (many individual stocks declined
much more).
Multiple Time Frames
Whether evaluating the charts of individual stocks or market averages, take ad-
vantage of different time frames to analyze trends. The long-term trend is usu-
ally quite obvious on a weekly or monthly chart. The higher time frame
provides a bigger picture view and eliminates much of the “noise” of the lower
time frames. When analyzing the intermediate- and short-term trends you’ll
want to see more detail so use the daily chart. At times you may even wish to
consult the hourly chart to get a good feel for the short-term trend.
Example
Figure 7.16 shows a monthly chart of the S&P 500 large-cap Index as of
August 2007. You can see the historical bull market that ended in 2000,
followed by the bear market of 2000–2002. Note that it took only two
years to wipe out about four years of gains during that bear market, and
it took the current bull market of almost five years to return to the prior
bull market’s high. In the markets, it usually takes longer to build up
than it does to tear down.
(continues)

JWBK100-Ch07.qxd 2/21/08 11:39 AM Page 134 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File
134 EAST MEETS WEST
Example (continued)
FIGURE 7.16 Long-term trends (bull and bear markets) on the
S&P 500 Index
Source: TeleChart 2007®
Example
Figure 7.17 shows a daily chart of the S&P 500 Index. The intermediate-
term trend on the S&P 500 chart is down and the short-term trend is up.
The current short-term uptrend actually began intraday on August 16, as
evidenced by the long tail of the hammer. At the time the low was made
during that session, the candle was very bearish. The long tail shows us
that there was a dramatic turnaround intraday as the bulls took control
from the bears. It was a very volatile trading session!
(continues)

JWBK100-Ch07.qxd 2/21/08 11:39 AM Page 135 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File
Trend Analysis 135
Example (continued)
FIGURE 7.17 Intermediate- and short-term trends on the S&P
500 Index
Source: TeleChart 2007®
Probability and Reversion
to the Mean
Don’t worry, you won’t have to attend a statistics class in order to learn how to
trade successfully (although it sure wouldn’t hurt). It is important, though, that
traders understand some basics about averages and probability because it can
have a direct and potentially dramatic impact on their trading.
Reversion to the Mean
As a general rule, price does not deviate far from the average (or mean), and
when it does, it becomes vulnerable to a change in direction. When price moves

JWBK100-Ch07.qxd 2/21/08 11:39 AM Page 136 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File
136 EAST MEETS WEST
away from the average, it has a tendency to move back
toward it, which is referred to as reverting to the mean.
mean I pay attention to the proximity of price to the 20-
reversion period moving average. When price moves too far away
A statistical from that strong moving average, I refer to it as “catching
concept that air.” Granted, that is not an impressive technical descrip-
suggests that a tion, but it seems effective at getting the point across to
value eventu- traders who are learning about price movement. When
ally moves back price has moved too far from the average, the stock may
toward the be overextended. That condition can be alleviated either
mean, or aver- by price pulling back toward the average (Figure 7.18,
age. For price, left), or by a period of sideways movement that allows
the mean can the average to catch up (Figure 7.18, right).
be a historical In an uptrend, after price swings up, it is often fol-
average of the lowed by a decline back toward the average, called a pull-
price. back or a dip. Price may also pull back upward after a
swing down in a downtrend. Pullbacks are quite common
within a trend. They are primarily the result of traders taking profits on short-
term price moves. Traders exiting their positions cause the minor retracements,
which are often followed by another swing in the direction of the longer trend.
When price moves sideways instead of pulling back, allowing the moving
average to catch up, I refer to it as minor consolidation or basing action. The
Japanese refer to this type of basing action as a box range. Basing action is a pe-
riod of tight sideways movement after a directional price move (not to be con-
fused with “base building” after a long downtrend that you’ll see referenced in
FIGURE 7.18 Mean reversion

JWBK100-Ch07.qxd 2/21/08 11:39 AM Page 137 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File
Trend Analysis 137
some technical analysis texts). A tight base may last from a few days to a few
weeks. It is a less significant event than a prolonged period of consolidation that
interrupts a long trend, such as a horizontal trading range or triangle shown
previously. In a strongly trending environment, basing action is often followed
by a resumption of the prior trend.
The difference between a pullback and basing action is that a pullback
turns againstthe trend (a countertrend move), whereas a base is a sidewaysmove
(refer to Figure 7.19). Both of these setups have the effect of allowing the trend
to rest up for another move. Such interruptions are healthy for a trend’s devel-
opment. Without them, price would move too quickly to extreme, unsustain-
able levels. The fact that the stock is able to consolidate the gains and then
move again in the direction of the longer trend is a testament to the trend’s
strength. Note:If a pullback or a period of basing action is preceded by a sharp
upward move (or a sharp decline in a downtrend), it may be referred to as a
pennant or a flag.
When price has moved away from the average it becomes vulnerable to
profit-taking by swing traders so be alert for candlestick reversal patterns. Re-
versal patterns often give short-term reversal signals at, or near, the end of price
swings. Figure 7.20 shows a daily chart of Cal Dive International Inc. (DVR).
FIGURE 7.19 Pullbacks and periods of minor consolidation are
common during the development of a longer trend
Source: TeleChart 2007®

JWBK100-Ch07.qxd 2/21/08 11:39 AM Page 138 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File
138 EAST MEETS WEST
FIGURE 7.20 Candlestick reversal patterns often form at the
end of price swings
Source: TeleChart 2007®
Price was in an uptrend from April through July 2007. The following discus-
sion corresponds to numbers 1 through 8 on the chart:
1. A strong rally moved price far above the 20-period simple moving av-
erage (SMA). Notice how much “air” there was between price and the
moving average. That was not just air, it was Air Jordan! On April 16 a
bearish dark cloud cover pattern formed (1).
2. Price pulled back to the 20-period moving average and consolidated
for several weeks. It is not unusual for a stock to consolidate the gains
after a strong move.
3. Price rose up again away from the moving average. On June 5 a drag-
onfly doji formed, followed by a near gravestone doji (3) the following
session.
4. Price pulled back to the moving average, offering buyers another entry
opportunity. The next swing up began with a bullish engulfing pattern
(4) on June 13.
5. Price lifted up from the average and gapped up on June 15. Two spin-
ning tops followed signaling a loss of momentum of the move. On

JWBK100-Ch07.qxd 2/21/08 11:39 AM Page 139 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File
Trend Analysis 139
June 20 a bearish engulfing pattern formed (5), starting another pull-
back toward the moving average.
6. Price stopped declining at the 20-period SMA and consolidated there
for a few days.
7. Price caught air again, ending with another dark cloud cover pattern
(7) on July 9.
8. Price pulled back below the moving average. On July 18 a bullish en-
gulfing pattern formed (8).
If a candlestick reversal signal calls the end of a price swing, and then price
resumes the longer trend after pulling back or consolidating, it does not mean
that the candlestick pattern failed. The presence of a reversal pattern does not
imply that an entire intermediate- or long-term trend will reverse. When price pulls
back or consolidates after an upward move, it does change direction for a period
of time; either from up to down or from up to sideways, respectively. Candlestick
reversal signals serve as warnings that a change in price direction may occur.
They do not tell us how significant the change will be, or how long it will last.
Reversion to the mean does not only occur in an uptrend; watch for the
same phenomenon in a downtrend. There will always be sellers covering short
positions, and “bottom fishers” looking for buying opportunities, whose trad-
ing actions will drive price back toward the mean.
Figure 7.21 shows DVR again, but this time a few months later. The stock
topped out in July 2007, forming a bearish Western head-and-shoulders top.
Price closed below the neckline (dotted line) of the head-and-shoulders pattern
on July 26, confirming the bearish pattern. Price curled back up a few days later
and tested the neckline as resistance. It is very common for prior support to be
tested as resistance after a breakdown, and vice versa after an upside breakout.
The price action that occurred during the subsequent decline corresponds to
numbers 1 through 4 on the chart:
1. Price declined for a couple of weeks, moving far away from the 20-period
SMA. The decline ended with a gap down and intraday sell-off on
August 6. By the close of that session, the stock had recovered much of the
intraday decline, as evidenced by the long tail, and formed a bullish ham-
mer (1) on the daily chart. During the following session a bullish engulf-
ing pattern formed around the hammer’s real body and the prior session’s
gap was filled. Price closed well off its high on the engulfing day leaving a
long upper shadow and evidence that there were still sellers around.
2. The next day price traded up to near the 20-period SMA (2) intraday;
here you see the reversion to the mean. The stock then closed well off
its high leaving another long upper shadow.

JWBK100-Ch07.qxd 2/21/08 11:39 AM Page 140 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File
140 EAST MEETS WEST
FIGURE 7.21 When price declines too far from the average, it
tends to move back toward it
Source: TeleChart 2007®
3. Price declined again and tested the August low (at 1), setting up the
potential for a Western bullish double bottom pattern. A bullish ham-
mer (3) formed on August 16, creating a smaller candlestick pattern
within the larger double bottom. I call this a pattern inside a pattern
and interpret it as strengthening the larger setup.
4. Price moved back up to the 20-period SMA.
The phenomenon of reversion to the mean offers traders opportunities to
enter positions at lower-risk areas than when price has moved away from the av-
erage where it is vulnerable to a setback. Reward and risk will be addressed later
in this book.
The Importance of Probability
Trading successfully is not a matter of chance; it is a result of trading in a man-
ner that puts the odds of winning on your side. For example, when price moves
too far away from the average, it is more likely to revert to the average than to
continue moving farther away from it. That is not to say that when price moves
away from the average and moves back toward it, a long trend is likely to re-
verse. Remember that price tends to swing back and forth while still moving in
the general direction of the trend (see Figure 7.20).

JWBK100-Ch07.qxd 2/21/08 11:39 AM Page 141 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File
Trend Analysis 141
Since the probability is good that price will revert
to the mean, that factor should influence the way traders
select and manage their trades, especially swing traders. probability
If a swing trader holds a long position in a stock and The likelihood,
does not wish to hold it through a pullback, once price but not a
catches air it may be time to exit, or start scaling out of certainty, of
the position, or at least be very watchful for a warning, something’s
such as a candlestick reversal signal. If a stock that he happening or
does not yet hold a position in, but would be interested being true.
in purchasing, has moved far away from the average, he
can watch for a dip back toward the average for a lower-
risk entry opportunity. If an entry is taken while the stock is far away from the
average, chances are good that the trader is setting himself up to hold through a
pullback or sideways move.
Even traders who hold long-term positions should evaluate each stock in-
dividually. An investor may plan on holding through pullbacks as the trend de-
velops. However, looks can be deceiving. Don’t forget to consider the stock’s
current volatility. What may appear to be a small move on the chart may actu-
ally be a significant percentage move.
Example
Figure 7.22 shows a daily chart of Echelon Corp. (ELON). Price pulled
back to the 20-period SMA in late July 2007. Price consolidated for a
few days followed by a strong swing up. At that point price had moved
away from the average, leaving a pocket of air below and the stochastic
oscillator provided an overbought reading, indicating the move was
overextended. (The stochastic oscillator is discussed later in this
chapter.) Price then turned down for several days, finally stopping at the
50-period SMA. Recall that you can quickly look at the logarithmic
scale to get a gauge of the stock’s current volatility. To find out exactly
how far this stock fell, calculate the distance from the high of the
upswing ($32.49) to the low of the downswing ($19.92). The difference
was $12.57, or a decline of approximately 39 percent from the swing
high to the swing low. Notice that a long lower shadow formed the
swing low indicating that bulls were willing to step into long positions
at the 50-period moving average.
(continues)

JWBK100-Ch07.qxd 2/21/08 11:39 AM Page 142 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File
142 EAST MEETS WEST
Example (continued)
FIGURE 7.22 Holding through a pullback may be more difficult than a
trader realizes
Source: TeleChart 2007®
The example in Figure 7.22 was chosen in order to point out the following:
• Short-term traders who held long positions during the swing up would
have no desire to watch all of their gains disappear.
• Even long-term traders would have to question whether they would
wish to watch a stock decline so far.
• If a protective stop were utilized (recommended) that did not exceed
the trader’s maximum risk tolerance, for example, 10 percent for a
swing trader and 15 percent for an investor, the stop would not have
held up through the decline.
• Once price caught air, the probability of a pullback was high. A trader
who chased this stock and entered a long position near the swing high
watched the trade immediately turn negative and had a very painful
experience due to a poorly timed entry.

JWBK100-Ch07.qxd 2/21/08 11:39 AM Page 143 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File
Trend Analysis 143
Be careful not to fall into the “wishful thinking” trap. When looking back
from the right edge of the chart at a stock that trended for a long period of
time, you may think you could have just held on through all the pullbacks and
periods of consolidation. Looking at a past chart of a stock in which you held
no position is a quite different situation than monitoring a live trade in which
real profits are at stake. In some cases a trader can hold on for much of the trend
using a trailing stop. However, in many cases a trader may get stopped out one
or more times as the trend evolves. And if a stock is volatile, what might look
like it was a minor pullback on the chart may have equated to a significant per-
centage decline.
Although holding through a decline may not sound like a big deal, that’s
where experience, with real money invested, is needed in order to determine
psychologically what you can handle. Short-term traders typically do not plan
to hold through pullbacks. If a short-term trader finds himself holding
through a lot of pullbacks, it may be an indication of poor trade selection and
management. Lack of discipline will lead to failure in this business. Plan your
trades in advance and know what justifies an entry, where to exit with a profit
if the trade goes as expected, and where to exit with a protective stop in case it
goes against you.
Beware of Chasing Overextended Stocks
A common mistake made by inexperienced traders is to chase after a stock en-
tering a position when price has become overextended. Unfortunately, new
traders often are not aware of the concept of reversion to the mean. Even those
who are aware may choose to take the gamble, hoping that price will continue
to move unabated. They let their emotions get the best of them. Emotional de-
cisions typically lead to sloppy trade execution and losses that could have been
avoided.
Experienced traders do not generally buy the swing high (or sell the swing
low) and then hold on trying to ride out a pullback. More often, it is the expe-
rienced traders who are gladly selling their shares near the swing highs to the
novice traders who shouldn’t be buying at such overextended levels. The traders
who buy the swing highs are sometimes called the “greater fools,” because there
is no greater fool willing to pay higher prices, so they are left holding the bag, so
to speak, as the stock turns against them.
The experienced traders are also the ones who are waiting to take the
shares off the hands of the novices who bail out because the pain of entering
too high, and then having to hold through the subsequent pullback, becomes
too much for them. In other words, experienced traders look to enter on
weakness (pullbacks or consolidation) and exit into strength as price gets
overextended.

JWBK100-Ch07.qxd 2/21/08 11:39 AM Page 144 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File
144 EAST MEETS WEST
Smart Investor Tip
In order to thrive as a trader, you must first survive. Trading is not
about gambling or wishful thinking. Traders must learn to control their
emotions and trade based on what is likely to happen rather than on
what they “hope” will happen. Seasoned traders do not use hope as a
strategy!
Momentum of the Trend
In addition to determining the direction and duration of a trend, there are also
methods of measuring its momentum. In his book Technical Analysis of the Fi-
nancial Markets (New York Institute of Finance, 1999, p. 228), John Murphy
defines momentum as follows: “Momentum measures the velocity of price
changes as opposed to the actual price levels themselves.”
Oscillators are a group of indicators that measure the momentum of price
(the rate of its ascent or descent). Price often loses momentum before it actually
changes direction; thus, oscillators may act as “leading” indicators of price.
While there are many different oscillators with different methods used to calcu-
late them, their interpretation doesn’t vary much. Be careful using too many os-
cillators because they basically measure the same thing.
There are usually at least a few oscillators to
choose from in most charting programs. Stochastics and
Wilder’s Relative Strength Index (RSI) are among the
oscillator
best known.
A technical
Unlike moving averages, which tend to whipsaw
indicator that
when price moves sideways, oscillators are effective in a
signifies when
nontrending environment. They can help catch the turn-
a stock or
ing points when price swings back and forth across a
market is in an
trading range. The oscillator’s fluctuations tend to corre-
overbought or
spond to the peaks and troughs in price. Oscillators are
oversold
not limited to nontrending environments. They can also
condition.
be helpful in a trending market. Oscillators have several
uses in this regard:
• Overextended conditions. When price is rising and an oscillator reaches
an extreme high level, it sends a signal that price may be overextended
to the upside or overbought. When an oscillator reaches an extreme low
level, it indicates that price may be overextended to the downside or

JWBK100-Ch07.qxd 2/21/08 11:39 AM Page 145 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File
Trend Analysis 145
oversold. Overbought and oversold readings warn that price is vulnera-
ble to at least a short-term change in direction.
• Divergence analysis. When higher peaks are forming in an uptrending
market, but the peaks of the oscillator are declining, a negative (bear-
ish) divergence exists. In a downtrending market, if price is forming de-
clining bottoms, but the oscillator bottoms are rising, it signals a
positive (bullish) divergence. A divergence between price and the oscil-
lator is a sign that the trend may be weakening.
• Relationship to the midpoint. Many oscillators have a midpoint. For
some oscillators that point is zero; others that move along a scale of 0
and 100 have midpoints of 50. When price turns up after a downtrend,
the oscillator will cross the midpoint and remain above it for most of
the uptrend, and vice versa when price reverses from up to down.
Traders may use the crossing of the midpoint as a buy or sell signal.
For now, we’ll focus on using an oscillator, namely stochastics, to help de-
termine when price may be overextended.
Stochastic Oscillator
The stochastic oscillator is a very popular momentum indicator developed by
George Lane. It is based on the premise that when price is trending up, the clos-
ing prices will tend to be near the high of the price range. In a downtrend, the
closing prices will be nearer the low of the price range.
The indicator includes two lines: the faster %K line and the slower %D
line. The %K line is the stochastic. The %D line is a moving average of %K,
which smoothes the stochastic and acts as a signal line. The result is two lines
that oscillate between fixed lower and upper boundaries of 0 and 100 percent,
respectively (Figure 7.23).
FIGURE 7.23 Stochastic oscillator
Source: TeleChart 2007®

JWBK100-Ch07.qxd 2/21/08 11:39 AM Page 146 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File
146 EAST MEETS WEST
The calculation compares the most recent closing price (on a percentage
basis) to the total range of price over a designated period of time. Time periods
must be chosen for the stochastic and the moving average.
Example
Two commonly used lengths are 14 periods for the stochastic with a
5-period moving average (14-5-5) and 12 periods with a 3-period
moving average (12-3-3). As is usually the case with technical indicators,
if you opt for speed, you give up some accuracy, and vice versa. A
stochastic length of 14 will produce slightly slower signals, but they may
be more accurate. A length of 12 will produce faster signals, although
there may be more false signals.
Within the boundaries of 0 and 100 lie the overbought line (80) and the
oversold line (20). A reading of over 80 is considered to be high; it indicates
that the current closing price is near the top of the designated range. Con-
versely, a reading of below 20 is considered to be low; the current closing price
is near the low end of the designated range.
Overbought and Oversold Conditions
The stochastic oscillator can be used to alert traders of short-term price ex-
tremes. At times, price moves for too long, or too far too quickly, in one direc-
tion. The result is an overbought (uptrend) or oversold (downtrend) condition.
These conditions are generally short term in nature and can be alleviated by a
pullback, correction, or a period of consolidation. In a strong trending market,
confident bulls (uptrend) or bears (downtrend) will often step back into trades
once the short-term overextended condition has been alleviated. There will cer-
tainly be cases when the trend will reverse after such conditions arise; however,
it takes a consensus by many market participants to reverse a strong trend.
Therefore, overbought and oversold signals should generally be interpreted to
be short term in nature unless there is additional evidence that a trend reversal
is in the making.
If a bearish candlestick reversal pattern forms while stochastic is in over-
bought territory, or if a bullish reversal pattern forms while stochastic is in
oversold territory, it strengthens the candlestick signal. In these cases, a candle-
stick pattern forms when the stock is already vulnerable to a change in the di-
rection of price.

JWBK100-Ch07.qxd 2/21/08 11:39 AM Page 147 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File
Trend Analysis 147
Example
Figure 7.24 shows a daily chart of Advanced Micro Devices (AMD). In
mid-July 2007, the price advance showed signs of trouble with the
formation of three doji within four trading sessions. A strong bearish
engulfing pattern formed on July 20. Price had moved up away from the
moving average and the stochastic oscillator was in overbought territory,
adding more evidence that a change in the direction of price was likely
to occur.
FIGURE 7.24 Bearish engulfing pattern formed while the
stochastic oscillator was in overbought territory
Source: TeleChart 2007®
Enhanced Candlestick Signals
Now you know that when price moves far from the average it tends to revert to
the mean. In addition, when the stochastic oscillator signals overbought or over-
sold, price is vulnerable to a change in direction. These two scenarios will often
occur in sync, but not always, so I don’t recommend that you require that price
be far from the average andthe stochastic oscillator be at an extreme in order to
justify acting on a candlestick signal. However, if either or both conditions are
present, the odds are good that a change in the direction of price will occur.

JWBK100-Ch07.qxd 2/21/08 11:39 AM Page 148 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File
148 EAST MEETS WEST
Example
Figure 7.25 shows a daily chart of DTS Inc. (DTSI). Price made a
strong swing up in early August 2007, ending with a bearish shooting
star on August 8. Follow the dotted line down from the shooting star
to below the chart window and you’ll see that the stochastic oscillator
with a setting of 14-5-5 (middle panel) did not provide an
overbought reading. Even with a shorter setting of 12-3-3 (lower
panel), the indicator did not move above the overbought line.
However, notice how far the two long bullish candles that formed
prior to the shooting star pushed price above the 20-period SMA. In
this case, in spite of the absence of confirmation from the oscillator, a
change in the direction of the short-term trend should be anticipated.
Price consolidated for a period of time after the appearance of the
shooting star.
FIGURE 7.25 In spite of the lack of confirmation from the
stochastic oscillator, price had moved away from the average
when a bearish shooting star formed
Source: TeleChart 2007®

JWBK100-Ch07.qxd 2/21/08 11:39 AM Page 149 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File
Trend Analysis 149
Example
Figure 7.26 shows a daily chart of Cohu Inc. (COHU). Price declined
far below the 20-period SMA by early August 2007. On August 7, the
stock gapped down open but closed deeply into the prior bearish
candle’s real body, forming a bullish piercing pattern. In this example,
not only was price far below the moving average, but the stochastic was
in oversold territory. Price then rallied back up to the average.
FIGURE 7.26 Bullish piercing pattern formed while price was
far below the average and was confirmed by stochastics
Source: TeleChart 2007®
There will certainly be candlestick reversal signals that follow through
when neither of the preceding conditions is present. The likelihood of a success-
ful signal increases, though, if there is more evidence that price is overextended
and vulnerable to a change in direction.

JWBK100-Ch07.qxd 2/21/08 11:39 AM Page 150 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File

JWBK100-ch08.qxd 2/21/08 11:40 AM Page 151 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File
8
Chapter
Gaps
No instruction on charting would be complete without a discussion of
gaps. It is important for traders to be able to identify gaps and under-
stand their implications. For decades, gaps have been recognized in
Western technical analysis. However, the identification and analysis of gaps did
not originate in the West. The Japanese utilized gaps in their analysis long be-
fore they became known in the Western hemisphere. In Japanese candlestick
charting, price gaps are referred to as windows.
In this chapter, you will be introduced to price gaps and a very common
event called the morning gap. Since the term gap is so well known, for consis-
tency, gap will be used throughout most of this discussion rather than the
Japanese term windows.
Price Gaps
A price gap is also called a true gap because it leaves a void on the chart. The
gap is still open by the end of the daily trading session, leaving empty space
where no trading took place. Neither the real bodies nor shadows of the two
consecutive bars that form the gap can overlap.
In order for an upside gap to form, the low of the
current bar must be above the high of the previous bar
(Figure 8.1). The Japanese refer to an upside gap as a ris- gap
ing window.For a downside gap to occur, the high of the Empty space
current bar must be below the low of the prior bar (Figure on a chart
8.2). The Japanese call a downside gap a falling window. where no
Even if a gap is very small, it is still valid. And trading has
remember that looks can be deceiving. If the stock occurred.
is volatile, what looks like a small gap may be bigger
151

JWBK100-ch08.qxd 2/21/08 11:40 AM Page 152 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File
152 EAST MEETS WEST
FIGURE 8.1 Upside gap FIGURE 8.2 Downside gap
(rising window) (falling window)
percentage-wise than you realize. (Refer to the discussion on volatility in
Chapter 6.)
Most price gaps are emotionally driven events that occur largely because
of news that is released and disseminated between the close of one day’s trading
session and the open of the following session. The news need not be related di-
rectly to the stock in question. Stocks may be impacted by the news of other
companies, sectors, industry groups, and global events. If there is no news, and
no significant demand that has built up for a stock, it should open at or near
the prior session’s close. However, if there is news or enough demand, the mar-
ket maker will fill the pending market orders accordingly, resulting in the
stock’s gapping up or down at the open.
Price gaps are most commonly seen on daily charts. Other than at the open,
you won’t often see true gaps (voids) on intraday charts. There are some excep-
tions, of course. For instance, if a stock is not very heavily traded, gaps may occur
intraday. If news is released on a stock during trading hours, it may result in
one or more price gaps intraday. If a stock’s trading is halted temporarily, price
may gap once the stock opens again for trading or in a fast-moving market gaps
may occur. Otherwise, most of the gaps that you’ll see on intraday charts are fairly
small gaps between the real bodies. The real bodies or shadows overlap, so no void
is visible on the chart. Gaps do occur frequently at the open. They are called
morning gapsand are discussed in detail later in this chapter.
True gaps are fairly rare on weekly charts, and even rarer on monthly
charts. Each weekly bar includes 5 days of data, and each monthly bar includes
about 20 days of data. Many gaps are filled during the week or month before
the next bar begins.

JWBK100-ch08.qxd 2/21/08 11:40 AM Page 153 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File
Gaps 153
Types of Price Gaps
The Japanese refer to gaps simply as rising(bullish) or falling(bearish) windows.
Western technical analysis takes the definition of gaps further. Rather than iden-
tifying gaps based strictly on the direction of the gap, either upside or downside,
they are also defined by the price action that precedes and follows the gap. There
are several different types of gaps observed in Western technical analysis.
An area gapoccurs when price gaps either up or down
within a trading range. An area gap may also be called a
common gapor a pattern gap.Figure 8.3 shows two area gaps area gap
that formed while price was consolidating. These gaps have A gap that
very little technical significance. They are usually filled occurs within
quickly as price moves up and down between the bound- a period of
aries of the trading range (the dotted lines in Figure 8.3). consolidation.
A breakaway gap is a technically significant gap. It
often marks the beginning of a strong price move. An
upside breakaway gap is a bullish signal that occurs when
price gaps above and closes above resistance. It should be
breakaway
accompanied by heavy volume. A downside breakaway gap
gap is a bearish signal that occurs when price gaps below
A gap that
and closes below support. A downside breakaway gap
forms when
may be accompanied by heavy volume, but if it is not, it
price breaks
does not take away from the signal like the upside gap. It
out above
usually takes more force to propel price higher than for a
resistance or
stock to decline.
below support.
A continuation gap occurs when a stock is trending
Breakaway
and price leaps forward, accelerating the move. A contin-
gaps are
uation gap may also be called a runaway gap.This type of
typically
gap may occur in an uptrending market (bullish) or a
accompanied
by heavy
volume.
continuation
gap
A gap that
forms while
price is
trending up or
down.
FIGURE 8.3 Area Gaps

JWBK100-ch08.qxd 2/21/08 11:40 AM Page 154 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File
154 EAST MEETS WEST
downtrending market (bearish). It is said to mark the halfway
point of a trend, which is why it is sometimes referred to as a
measuring gap. A continuation gap is often filled weeks or
exhaustion
gap months later during a correction or reversal of the trend.
A gap that An exhaustion gapoccurs after a sharp move or a long
forms at the trend. This gap may follow one or more prior gaps, for ex-
end of a trend. ample, a continuation gap; however, that will not always
Exhaustion be the case. Sometimes an exhaustion gap is not preceded
gaps are by other gaps. As its name implies, this type of gap repre-
typically sents a climax or exhaustion move. It is often a last blast of
accompanied buying in an uptrend, or capitulation in a downtrend, fol-
by heavy lowed by a sharp reversal, or at least a shift to a period of
volume. consolidation. Exhaustion gaps are typically accompanied
by heavy volume, and they are usually filled quickly.
Example
Figure 8.4 shows a daily chart of Foster Wheeler Ltd. (FWLT). On April 3,
2007, price gapped up above the ceiling of a horizontal trading range (dotted
line), completing a bullish breakaway gap. Several weeks later, on May 9,
price gapped again, forming a bullish continuation gap. Both the breakaway
gap and the continuation gap were accompanied by heavy volume.
FIGURE 8.4 Breakaway gap was followed by a continuation gap
Source: TeleChart 2007®

JWBK100-ch08.qxd 2/21/08 11:40 AM Page 155 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File
Gaps 155
Smart Investor Tip
The volume bars in the panel below the chart window will be rescaled
as new, higher levels of volume occur. That makes past volume bars
appear to be smaller than they actually were when they formed at the
right edge of the chart. Therefore, when analyzing a historical chart,
make sure to back up the chart to the date(s) being analyzed instead of
just looking back from the right edge. Unusually high volume days
leave volume spikes that make it difficult to accurately gauge the
volume of other days. Some charting programs allow the volume to be
truncated to reduce this effect.
Example
Figure 8.5 shows a daily chart of TransOcean Inc. (RIG). After trending
up for several months, price gapped up on July 23, 2007. The gap was
accompanied by heavy volume. Price reversed direction immediately and
filled the gap, making it clear that it was an exhaustion gap.
FIGURE 8.5 Exhaustion gap was accompanied by heavy volume
Source: TeleChart 2007®

JWBK100-ch08.qxd 2/21/08 11:40 AM Page 156 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File
156 EAST MEETS WEST
When analyzing a gap at the right edge of the
chart, you cannot always identify the type of gap at the
island time it forms. If price is consolidating and gaps, but does
reversal not break out, it is fairly easy to identify it as an area gap.
An exhaustion Likewise, the breakaway gap is obvious because it gaps
gap is followed away from consolidation. However, with a continuation
soon after by or exhaustion gap, you won’t know for sure at the time it
another gap in forms which gap it will turn out to be. It takes at least
the opposite one more bar, and sometimes several more, before it is
direction. evident whether it is a continuation or exhaustion gap.
Keep this idea in mind when you develop the rules of
your trading strategies and outline how you’ll respond to a gap should one
occur.
Example
Figure 8.6 shows a daily chart of Canadian National Railway (CNI).
After a steep run up, price gapped up on July 18, 2007, accompanied by
very heavy volume. Price consolidated within the long bullish candle for
three days. On July 24, price gapped down, forming a bearish island top
(circled). By early August, price had retraced much of the prior uptrend.
FIGURE 8.6 Swift uptrend ended with a bearish island top
Source: TeleChart 2007®

JWBK100-ch08.qxd 2/21/08 11:40 AM Page 157 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File
Gaps 157
An island reversalpattern is formed when price gaps in the direction of the
trend and then gaps in the opposite direction, leaving one or more bars with a
void on both sides. In an uptrend, this price action is called a bearish island top.
If it occurs in a downtrend, it is a bullish island bottom.
When Has a Price Gap Been Filled?
The market does not like voids on a chart so there is a strong tendency for gaps
to be filled. Most gaps are eventually closed. Some gaps are filled quickly, for ex-
ample, most area gaps and exhaustion gaps. Others may take weeks, months, or
even years to close. A breakaway gap, or a gap that occurs at the beginning of a
long trend, may not be filled for a long time. There are occasions, although they
are infrequent, when a gap is never filled.
After an upside gap forms on a chart, at some time in the future, price may
fall back through that void. If price declines back to or near the bottom of the
void, the gap has been closed (Figure 8.7). The reverse may occur with a down-
side gap. In Western technical analysis, this price action is referred to as filling or
closing the gap. The Japanese would say, “The window has been closed.”
Price will not always fill the gap entirely. In some instances, much of the
gap will be filled, but price changes direction again before filling the entire gap. If
most of the void has been filled, traders generally consider the gap to be closed.
Gaps as Support or Resistance
The phenomenon of support and resistance is a very important tenet of Western
technical analysis. It is so essential that Chapter 9 is devoted to it. As you’ll learn in
that discussion, there are several types of support and resistance, including gaps.
FIGURE 8.7 Closed gap

JWBK100-ch08.qxd 2/21/08 11:40 AM Page 158 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File
158 EAST MEETS WEST
When an upside gap is filled, the bottom of the void should provide sup-
port. If price closes below the gap, support has been broken and the message
turns bearish. Conversely, when a downside gap is filled, the top of the void
should act as resistance. If price closes above the gap, resistance has been bro-
ken, which is a bullish sign.
Interpreting Price Gaps
The Japanese refer to a gap as a continuation pattern. An upside gap is inter-
preted as bullish, and a downside gap is bearish. This is only a general concept,
though. Be careful about trying to employ a “one size fits all” rule in technical
analysis. Just because an upside gap is considered bullish does not mean price
may not decline first or move sideways before resuming the uptrend, and vice
versa for a downside gap. In addition, don’t expect price to always move again in
the direction of the gap. Sometimes price reverses direction, trades back through
the gap, and just keeps going, resulting in a reversal rather than a continuation
of the trend.
The context in which the gap forms should be considered. Each price gap
should be analyzed individually when determining how to respond to it. Fol-
lowing are some factors to consider:
• Size of the gap.
• Price action that preceded the gap. Did the stock gap out of consolida-
tion? How far had price already moved prior to the gap? Is price overex-
tended and vulnerable to a change in direction?
• Surrounding chart landscape. Is there resistance nearby that may cause
an upward price move to stall or reverse (or support below that may
stop a downside move)?
• Style of trading utilized.Is this a short-term trade or a longer-term trade
that may be held for weeks or months?
• Trader’s temperament. What is the trader’s risk tolerance and risk and
money management rules?
• Current volatility of the stock.
• Current environment of the broader market.
The discussion that follows addresses these factors and is intended to pro-
voke thought on how you might interpret and react to an upside gap. The same
thought processes should be considered when analyzing a bearish gap, except
that the gap is to the downside.
Figure 8.8 shows a daily chart of Checkpoint Systems Inc. (CKP). The
upside gap that occurred on August 2, 2007, was a large gap driven by news.

JWBK100-ch08.qxd 2/21/08 11:40 AM Page 159 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File
Gaps 159
FIGURE 8.8 Large upside gap failed to break up through strong resistance
Source: TeleChart 2007®
This gap encountered a strong resistance area at the June–July Western dou-
ble top (dotted line). After such a move, it is not unusual to see price turn im-
mediately back down and at least partially fill the gap. Additionally, the major
averages had sold off in late July, so the broad market environment was volatile.
The stock reversed direction and filled the gap within the next few days. This
example illustrates the importance of evaluating each gap individually. I cer-
tainly would not advocate entering a new long position on the gap-up day in a
scenario like this one. The stock may move higher; however, the probability is
high in such a situation that price will decline, or at least move sideways, before
it will break out to a new high. If instead of reversing at the double top resis-
tance area price had gapped over it and closed above it, the signal would have
been a bullish one.
Figure 8.9 shows a daily chart of Fremont General Corp. (FMT). Re-
garding the style of trading, consider the following two scenarios: Trader A is
a swing trader, which is a shorter-term style where positions are typically
held from a few days to a couple of weeks. He entered a long position in
FMT in early April 2007 near support provided by the March low. After
price advanced for a few days, the gap-up open on April 16 was a big bonus.
Trader A used the gap to exit the trade with a sizable gain. Trader B is an in-
vestor who typically holds positions longer term. She also entered a long po-
sition at the same area as Trader A, but she intends to hold the position for

JWBK100-ch08.qxd 2/21/08 11:40 AM Page 160 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File
160 EAST MEETS WEST
FIGURE 8.9 High percentage decline back to the bottom of the gap
Source: TeleChart 2007®
several weeks or even months. She may have no reaction to the gap other
than to raise the protective stop to preserve much of the gains in the event
price breaks down.
Now consider the question of the stock’s current volatility. This stock
had already risen approximately 23 percent from the support area before it
gapped up. Then on April 16, the stock gapped open approximately 35 per-
cent higher than the prior session’s close. After such a strong move up, profit-
taking by short-term traders may force the stock down and fill the gap. In the
case of FMT, the distance from the open of the April 16 gap day back to the
bottom of the void (the high of the bar prior to the gap day) was about 24
percent. The swing trader would not wish to hold through such a decline.
And, in fact, is the investor willing to allow the stock that much room to pull
back? Even for longer-term trades the volatility should be considered. Say that
Trader B has a risk management rule (recommended) that she will not allow a
long-term position to reverse more than 15 percent from the current price or
the stock will be exited. That is not to say that a stop should be placed an ar-
bitrary 15 percent away from the current price, but rather it should be placed
at a technical level not to exceed the maximum allowed reversal of 15 percent.
In that case, Trader B’s stop is likely to be triggered. If FMT pulls back and
fills the gap, the distance to the bottom of the void is almost 10 percent fur-
ther than Trader B’s maximum stop level would allow.

JWBK100-ch08.qxd 2/21/08 11:40 AM Page 161 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File
Gaps 161
Smart Investor Tip
The maximum stop level may vary from one trader to the next
depending on risk tolerance and trading style. For example, a
maximum of 10 percent may be employed for a swing trade versus 15
percent for a longer-term trade. A day trader may have a much lower
maximum, such as 3 to 4 percent, or even less. Note:The maximum
stop loss for an individual trade should not exceed 2 percent of the
total account equity. For example, a $50,000 account ×.02 = $1,000.
It need not be an “all or nothing” decision. The investor may elect to sell
some shares on the gap and raise the stop on the remaining shares. As such, if
price continues higher, she will still hold a partial position. However, less of the
gains would be exposed to a potential pullback that may be enough to trigger
the protective stop.
In summary, an upside gap may ultimately turn out to be a bullish event.
However, whether it is a gap, a candlestick signal, or some other technical event,
it is prudent to look beyond just that particular event. Trading successfully
means considering other factors that can impact your trades.
The Morning Gap
A morning gap is also called an opening gap because it occurs at the open of a
daily trading session. Morning gaps are very common on daily charts; much
more so than true gaps. They occur due to order imbalances that are managed
by market makers at the open. (Morning gaps occur on stocks but not on the
charts of continuous 24-hour futures.)
All gaps actually start out as opening gaps. A true
gap must open beyond the prior day’s range: above the
prior high for an upside gap and below the prior low for morning
a downside gap. By the close of market that gap has gap
not been filled, which leaves a void on the daily chart. A gap that
A morning gap also gaps up or down at the open; occurs at the
however, it does not leave a void on the daily chart.The open of a daily
gap is closed during the trading session. Figure 8.10 trading session
shows the contrast between a true gap and a morning and is filled
gap. before the
A morning gap is defined by the opening and clos- close of the
ing prices of two consecutive daily bars. In order to form session.
an upside morning gap, price must open above the prior

JWBK100-ch08.qxd 2/21/08 11:40 AM Page 162 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File
162 EAST MEETS WEST
FIGURE 8.10 Price (true) gaps compared to a morning gap
Source: TeleChart 2007®
day’s close (Figure 8.11). Price may even open above the prior day’s high
(Figure 8.12), but at a minimum, there must be a gap up between the two real
bodies at the open. Some traders even refer to this gap as a body gap. For a
downside morning gap, price must open below the prior day’s close (Figure
8.13) or its low (Figure 8.14).
FIGURE 8.11 Morning gap up FIGURE 8.12 Morning gap up
above the prior close above the prior high

JWBK100-ch08.qxd 2/21/08 11:40 AM Page 163 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File
Gaps 163
FIGURE 8.13 Morning gap down FIGURE 8.14 Morning gap down
below the prior close below the prior low
When Has a Morning Gap Been Filled?
A morning gap is filled when price reverses the opening direction intraday and
trades back at least to the prior day’s close. An upside morning gap is filled if
any of the following is present on the chart by the close of market (the inverse is
true for a morning gap down):
• The current day’s low is the same, or very near the same, as the prior
day’s close (see Figure 8.11). The prior day’s close is a natural support
level so it is not unusual to see price stop falling there.
• The current day’s lower shadow pierces the prior day’s real body (not
shown, but if the lower shadow in Figure 8.11 was longer it would be
an example).
• The current day’s real body touches, protrudes into, or engulfs, the
prior day’s real body (Figure 8.12).
The fact that there is an overlap between the real bodies, or their shadows,
by the end of the session means it cannot be a true gap.
Variations of the Morning Gap
A variation of the morning gap occurs when price gaps up open above the prior
bar’s high, trades back to the prior bar’s high or lower, but does not decline all
the way back to the prior bar’s close (Figure 8.15). This intraday price action
closes the void on the daily chart that is created at the market open, but it does
not close the entire intraday gap between the bodies.

JWBK100-ch08.qxd 2/21/08 11:40 AM Page 164 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File
164 EAST MEETS WEST
FIGURE 8.15 Variation of a FIGURE 8.16 Variation of a
morning gap morning gap
Another variation occurs when price gaps up open above the prior day’s
closeand trades within that prior session’s upper shadow. Price does not trade all
the way back to the prior day’s close, so again the intraday gap between the real
bodies is not completely filled (Figure 8.16). In this case there is never an actual
void on the daily chart because price does not open above the prior session’s
high; however, there is still a gap between the two bars’ real bodies.
The inverse of the above variations may also occur with a downside morn-
ing gap.
Intraday View of a Morning Gap
Most opening gaps fill, or at least partially fill, within the trading session leaving
no void on the daily chart. They often fill early in the day—frequently within
the first hour of trading.
Example
Using the Schlumberger Ltd (SLB) chart from Figure 8.10 as an
example, let’s take a look at an intraday view of a morning gap. Figure
8.17 shows the daily price action on the left, which led up to the
opening gap on July 23, 2007. On the right is a 5-minute chart showing
the first 50 minutes after the open on July 23. The 5-minute chart
demonstrates how price gapped up open but traded no higher. That is
evident by the hanging man with a shaven top that formed in the first
five minutes of trading. If price had traded higher after the open, that
5-minute hanging man (and the daily candlestick) would have an upper
shadow. The stock declined from the open and filled the morning gap
within the first 20 minutes of the trading session.
(continues)

JWBK100-ch08.qxd 2/21/08 11:40 AM Page 165 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File
Gaps 165
Example (continued)
FIGURE 8.17 Morning gap viewed on a 5-minute chart
Source: TeleChart 2007®
Although you will no longer see a void on the daily chart once the gap has
filled, you can see how and when price rolled over and filled the gap on the
5-minute time frame. Essentially, it is an intraday exhaustion gap if it occurs after a
directional move. Depending on how fast the opening gap is filled, you may not
see the actual void on all intraday time frames. For instance, the SLB gap in Figure
8.17 filled quickly, so no void would appear on the 30- or 60-minute charts; how-
ever, it is still visible on very low time frames. There will be some cases in which the
gap is filled so quickly that it isn’t even visible on the 5-minute time frame after the
first 5-minute bar has closed.
Morning Gaps and Candlesticks
You may be thinking that the morning gap is an interesting and useful phenom-
enon, but what does it have to do with candlestick charting? Take a closer look
at Figures 8.11 through 8.15. The morning gap up in Figure 8.11 occurred af-
ter a warning from a bearish upper shadow the prior session (long shadows were
discussed in Chapter 5). In Figure 8.12 observe that the morning gap became a
bearish engulfing pattern that surrounded the small real body of a hanging man
that formed the prior day. The downside morning gap in Figure 8.13 turned
into a bullish engulfing pattern by the end of the session. Figure 8.14 became a
bullish piercing pattern. All of these events occurred after a price advance or a
decline, so there was a move to reverse.

JWBK100-ch08.qxd 2/21/08 11:40 AM Page 166 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File
166 EAST MEETS WEST
Not all morning gaps will turn into candlestick reversal patterns. How-
ever, you may be surprised at how many reversal patterns do evolve from, or in-
clude, a morning gap. Make sure to carefully study the criterion of the reversal
patterns provided in Chapter 3 because several of them require an opening gap
for a valid pattern.
Example
Both the dark cloud cover and the piercing pattern start with a morning
gap; and the star patterns have a gap between the first and second real
bodies in their formations. Most engulfing patterns also develop from a
morning gap.
Interpreting the Morning Gap
Since all gaps start as opening gaps, you won’t know at the time price gaps open
how the day will unfold. Will a void remain on the chart (a true gap), or will
the gap be closed, resulting in a morning gap? Remember, though, that morn-
ing gaps occur frequently; much more so than true gaps. Therefore, when a
stock does gap open, it has a high likelihood of filling within the trading ses-
sion and often early in the trading day. Keep that in mind when determining
how you’ll react to opening gaps.
The manner in which a trader chooses to react to an opening gap may
vary from one situation to the next. Again, the following should be considered:
• The size of the gap
• The price action that preceded the gap
• The surrounding chart landscape
• The style of trading utilized
• The trader’s risk tolerance and risk and money management rules
• The current volatility of the stock
• The current environment of the broader market
Since morning gaps are very common, traders who hold long-term posi-
tions may choose to ignore many opening gaps. Otherwise, they may exit a po-
sition prematurely. Even when holding longer term, though, situations may
arise in which an opening gap should not be ignored. Always consider the con-
text in which the gap formed.
Swing traders are much less inclined to ignore an opening gap. Because of
the short hold time, the way they manage gaps may make a significant difference

JWBK100-ch08.qxd 2/21/08 11:40 AM Page 167 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File
Gaps 167
in their profitability. The remainder of this chapter is devoted to discussion of
how morning gaps can affect short-term positions and how swing traders may
choose to respond to such events. The discussion and examples refer to trading
long positions; however, the same concepts apply inversely for shorting. Even if
most of your trades are longer term, you should review the remaining pages, as
you may pick up some valuable information.
The Opening Gap’s Role in
Swing Trading
The opening gap is an important concept to understand and is a component of
many day-trading and swing-trading techniques and strategies. Trading deci-
sions should not be based on emotions; they should be based on logical conclu-
sions. Knowing that most opening gaps will reverse direction intraday should
be a consideration when swing traders define their short-term strategies.
Location Matters
Just as it matters where a candlestick reversal pattern forms on a chart (it must have
a move to reverse), it matters where an opening gap occurs. It is important to con-
sider the price action that preceded the gap. If a trader holds a long position in a
stock that has just started to move up, an opening gap, especially a small one, may
not be a significant event. However, if price has already moved a good distance
away from the average, an upside opening gap may be much more meaningful. It
may represent a signal to exit all, or at least part, of a swing position, particularly if
price gaps open substantially beyond the prior trading session’s close.
Recall from Chapter 7 that price tends to revert to the mean. Thus, when
price has moved away from the average on the daily chart, it becomes vulnera-
ble to a pullback or at least a period of consolidation. Swing traders typically try
to avoid getting caught in a pullback that may take back part of the gains
achieved during a price advance (or sometimes all of the gains if proper risk
management is not employed). They should be on the alert for warning signs
that indicate a potential end of the short-term trend. In some cases, a warning
comes in the form of an opening gap.
Since most opening gaps reverse direction intraday, that means it is common
for price to decline back to the prior trading session’s close, and potentially farther.
When deciding whether to exit an opening gap, a trader should check the prior ses-
sion’s close and determine if he would be willing to hold back to that point. If not,
the opening gap can be used to lock in additional profits. A stock’s volatility should
also be considered. If a stock is volatile, an opening gap may be bigger than it
appears on a percentage basis. Looks can be deceiving where volatility is concerned.

JWBK100-ch08.qxd 2/21/08 11:40 AM Page 168 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File
168 EAST MEETS WEST
Example
Figure 8.18 shows a daily chart of Biolase Technology Inc (BLTI). Price
rallied for several days from July 23 to 30, 2007. On July 31, price
gapped up open approximately 6 percent above the prior session’s close.
Price had already moved far away from the moving average prior to the
appearance of the opening gap. The opening gap offered a swing trader
an opportunity to sell near what may turn out to be the swing high. By
the close of market, the opening gap had evolved into a bearish dark
cloud cover pattern.
FIGURE 8.18 Upside opening gap turned into a bearish dark
cloud cover pattern
Source: TeleChart 2007®
The surrounding chart landscape should also be evaluated. Look for tech-
nical signs that indicate where the trade may run into trouble. Swing traders
typically determine targets in advance of initiating their trades. A ceiling above
would provide a target. A gap up to that ceiling would indicate the target has
been achieved. Conversely, if a short position is held and price gaps to a floor, in
most cases the position should be covered.
Swing traders should monitor their trades closely and be vigilant at the
open. Attention should be given to the circumstances in which the opening gap

JWBK100-ch08.qxd 2/21/08 11:40 AM Page 169 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File
Gaps 169
occurs. If a stock gaps up open to a level where price is vulnerable to a change in
direction, it is not necessary to wait to see if the morning gap fills or if a candle-
stick pattern evolves by the end of the daily session. In many cases, the morning
gap isan early reversal signal.
Example
Figure 8.19 shows a daily chart of Denbury Resources Ltd. (DNR). A
swing trader who entered a long position when price pulled back to the
50-period simple moving average would have participated in the swing
up from July 27 to August 1, 2007. The July high would be a logical
target (dotted line). On August 2, price gapped up open approximately
7 percent to just above that ceiling. As you can see from the 15-minute
price action shown in Figure 8.20, the stock fell rapidly after the
opening gap, which pushed it back below the ceiling on the daily chart
and filled the gap within the first 45 minutes of trading. It would not
have been necessary to hold through that intraday decline had a swing
trader determined the target in advance and used the opening gap to
exit when that objective had been reached.
FIGURE 8.19 Price gapped up open to the swing target
Source: TeleChart 2007®
(continues)

JWBK100-ch08.qxd 2/21/08 11:40 AM Page 170 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File
170 EAST MEETS WEST
Example (continued)
FIGURE 8.20 Opening gap filled within the first hour of trading
Source: TeleChart 2007®
Morning Gaps and Pullbacks
Swing traders may be concerned about opening gaps filling during the day and
robbing them of the extra profits they could have had if they exited the trade
earlier in the session. But that is not the only concern. Often, an opening gap
marks the beginning of a pullback on the daily chart. So not only are the addi-
tional profits in the opening gap at risk, but the stock may decline further dur-
ing the following days. As a general rule, a short-term trader seeks to exit after a
price swing rather than holding through a pullback or consolidation.
Not all opening gaps will mark the beginning of a pullback. Morning gaps
are very common. Even though most of them may reverse the opening direc-
tion intraday, it does not necessarily mean the stock will continue to decline
during the following days. Sometimes opening gaps will occur day after day, fill-
ing (or partially filling) each day, but price continues in the direction of the trend.
And even if a stock has moved well away from the average prior to the gap-up
open, there will still be instances in which the stock will continue to rise instead
of moving sideways or pulling back. Remember, though, that type of scenario is
more the exception than the rule.

JWBK100-ch08.qxd 2/21/08 11:40 AM Page 171 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File
Gaps 171
Example
Figure 8.21 shows a daily chart of Clarcor Inc. (CLC). After a long white
shaven candle formed on August 8, 2007, price gapped up open in the
following session far above the prior bar’s high. Price turned down
immediately and quickly filled the opening gap. By the end of the trading
session, a dark cloud cover pattern had formed on the daily chart.
Although price did not pierce halfway or more into the prior candle’s
white real body, the penetration was substantial enough to provide the
same message as an ideal dark cloud cover pattern. The stock continued to
decline over the next several days, retracing most of the prior swing up.
FIGURE 8.21 Price gapped up open, filled the gap, and continued
to pull back
Source: TeleChart 2007®
There will always be situations where you exit a long position and then
watch the stock move higher. That is simply part of doing business in the un-
certain world of trading, in which we must make our decisions at the right edge
of the chart instead of in the rearview mirror. Don’t get caught up in wishful
thinking by looking back at a stock like UIC in Figure 8.22 that you may have
exited. If your strategy called for exiting, you should commend yourself for fol-
lowing your rules rather than chastising yourself for doing so. Disciplined
traders survive in this business; undisciplined ones rarely do.

JWBK100-ch08.qxd 2/21/08 11:40 AM Page 172 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File
172 EAST MEETS WEST
Example
Figure 8.22 shows a daily chart of United Industrial Corp. (UIC). UIC
gapped up open every day for several days during May 2007 (arrows).
Some of the morning gaps were very small, while others were more
significant. Even though this stock got far away from the average, it
continued to move higher.
FIGURE 8.22 Multiple opening gaps occurred within the uptrend
Source: TeleChart 2007®
Some traders may elect to take partial profits in specific cases in the
face of an opening gap. For instance, they may sell a quarter, half, or more of
their shares and maintain a protective stop on the balance of the position.
That action maintains a partial position in the event that the stock continues
higher, while reducing the exposure in case price pulls back. Selling in incre-
ments is a practice referred to as scaling out. Other traders may prefer to uti-
lize a strategy that includes raising the protective stop or implementing an
automatic trailing stop, in lieu of exiting when an opening gap occurs. With
practice, you’ll determine the method that is best suited to your risk toler-
ance and trading style.

JWBK100-ch08.qxd 2/21/08 11:40 AM Page 173 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File
Gaps 173
Exiting a Trade in Premarket
Since it is common for an opening gap to reverse within the first hour of trad-
ing, traders do not have a lot of time to ponder how to react to the gap. Traders
should decide before the opening bell whether they’ll wait until the open and
observe the price action, or if they’ll attempt to exit the position in premarket
trading.
The regular trading session for the major U.S.
stock exchanges runs from 9:30 AM to 4:00 PM Eastern
premarket
Time. Premarket trading occurs for a couple of hours
trading
prior to the open of the regular trading session. Partici-
Trading that
pation by market makers and electronic communications
occurs prior to
networks (ECNs) in premarket trading is voluntary.
the open of the
Thus, liquidity may be significantly less than during nor-
normal daily
mal trading hours, and some stocks may not trade at all
trading
prior to the opening bell.
session.
Many novice traders are not familiar with, or have
some fear of, trading in the premarket session. Traders
should do so cautiously, as the bid-ask spreads can be significantly wider than
during regular trading hours. However, if a trader owns a stock that is trading
actively in premarket—heavily enough that the spread is not prohibitive—exit-
ing in premarket is a viable option in many instances. Only limit orders will be
filled during premarket hours. Market orders will be held in queue until the
opening bell.
It is not usually necessary to wait until the opening
bell in order to determine if a stock will gap open to the
up or down side. If a stock is trading actively in premar- slippage
ket at a price higher than the prior trading session’s close, The difference
then it has already gapped up. If it is trading at prices between the
lower than the prior session’s close, it has already gapped price at the
down. Unless something changes before the opening bell time a trader
that pushes price back to the prior session’s close, it is places an
destined to gap open when the normal trading session order and the
begins. price at which
Price may move quickly at the opening bell, and the order is
slippage can sometimes be severe in a fast-moving actually filled.
stock. Keep that in mind when determining your trad-
ing strategies.

JWBK100-ch08.qxd 2/21/08 11:40 AM Page 174 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File

JWBK100-Ch09.qxd 2/21/08 11:40 AM Page 175 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File
9
Chapter
Support and
Resistance
If you wish to become skilled at technical analysis, it is
imperative that you understand its primary focus.
The crux of technical analysis is the study of trends.
support
Chapter 7 was devoted entirely to discussion of trend
An area
analysis. In Chapter 8 you learned about price gaps,
beneath the
which can also play a part in a trend’s development. This
current price in
chapter adds one more layer to the study of trends by ex-
which demand
amining the role of support and resistance. Support and
should be
resistance play a crucial part in chart analysis, trade se-
sufficient to
lection, and trade management.
halt a price
Support is an area below the current price that
decline.
traders recognize as a level in which buying may be suffi-
cient to overcome selling pressure (Figure 9.1). When
price declines to a floor, it is referred to as a test of sup-
port.When support is tested and holds, the price decline
is halted, at least temporarily. Bulls step into long posi-
tions and bears cover short positions, keeping price from breakdown
descending further. Price may reverse direction after test- Price closes
ing support, or it may move sideways. If price closes be- below an
low a floor, it is referred to as a breakdown or a break of identifiable
support.When support is broken, it is a sign of weakness support area.
and the downtrend may continue.
175

JWBK100-Ch09.qxd 2/21/08 11:40 AM Page 176 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File
176 EAST MEETS WEST
FIGURE 9.1 Support FIGURE 9.2 Resistance
Resistance is an area above the current price which
traders perceive to be a level where enough selling may
resistance occur to overcome buying pressure (Figure 9.2). When
An area above price rises up to a ceiling it is referred to as a test of resis-
the current tance. When resistance is tested and holds, the price
price in which advance is halted, at least temporarily. Bears sell short
supply should and bulls exit long positions, keeping price from ascend-
be sufficient to ing further. Price may reverse direction or move sideways
halt a price after testing resistance. If price closes above a ceiling, it is
advance. referred to as a breakout or a break of resistance. When
price breaks through a ceiling, it is a sign of strength and
the uptrend may continue.
Support and resistance levels are not arbitrary. They
breakout are areas on a chart that are known to have the potential
of halting the trend. The most commonly referenced sup-
Price closes
port and resistance areas are those created from price
above an
peaks and bottoms. Peaks and bottoms are formed dur-
identifiable
ing a trend’s development, and they are also the building
resistance area.
blocks of Western reversal and continuation patterns.
Resistance and Support at Peaks
and Bottoms
As discussed in Chapter 7, peaks and bottoms are formed as a trend develops and
during trendless phases (consolidation). Now it is time to expand upon the roles of
peaks and bottoms as areas of resistance and support. Whether they have formed
recently, or farther in the past, peaks and bottoms have the potential to provide re-
sistance or support, respectively, when price approaches those areas again.
As an uptrend develops, price typically rises and then pulls back or consol-
idates. The price action from those short-term trends leaves a series of minor
peaks and bottoms. Some of the peaks and bottoms will be more significant

JWBK100-Ch09.qxd 2/21/08 11:40 AM Page 177 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File
Support and Resistance 177
Example
Figure 9.3 shows a daily chart of Berry Petroleum Co (BRY). From late
March through mid-June 2007 price was in an uptrend. After each
pullback or period of minor consolidation, price was easily able to
surpass the prior peak (numbered 1 through 5) and move on to new
highs. Notice how price frequently found support at the prior peak
during subsequent pullbacks. For instance, after peak 4 formed price
pulled back and used peak 3 as support. The same occurred again when
peak 5 formed and pulled back to peak 4. Prior resistance often becomes
new support. The pullback after peak 6 was deeper than the prior dips
but held support at the prior swing low (at 4). Price moved up again
from early to mid-July, but that time the momentum was not sufficient
to break through the prior peak (at 6). Price declined back to support at
the June 8 and June 27 bottoms (at 4 again).
FIGURE 9.3 It is difficult to determine, at the right edge of the
chart, whether the stock is consolidating or putting in a top
Source: TeleChart 2007®
than others, but each creates a potential resistance or support area. In order for
the uptrend to continue, price must be able to break up through those newly
formed peaks to new highs. In addition, when price pulls back it must hold
prior support levels in order for the uptrend to remain intact. Once price is no

JWBK100-Ch09.qxd 2/21/08 11:40 AM Page 178 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File
178 EAST MEETS WEST
longer able to take out the prior peak, the stock may either be transitioning into
a trading range or putting in a top. Conversely, in order for a downtrend to
continue, price must take out each newly formed bottom on subsequent de-
clines. When it is no longer able to do so, the trend may be shifting into a
trendless phase or bottoming out.
In a scenario like that, which occurred on the chart of BRY in Figure 9.3,
when price is no longer able to surpass the prior peak, bearish traders may inter-
pret it as a potential bearish Western double top setting up. They anticipate that
a trend reversal is likely. Bullish traders may view the same chart and, rather
than seeing a double top, they determine that price has entered a trading range.
They anticipate that price will break to the upside at some point, continuing
the prior uptrend. The double top that is present on the chart of BRY is just
consolidation until it is confirmed with a close below the middle of the “M.”
Thus, it is difficult to determine, at the right edge of the chart, whether the
stock is readying for a reversal or just resting before another move up. Only af-
ter price has broken down through support or up through resistance will you
know whether the bears or the bulls were right.
As the BRY example shows, recently formed peaks and bottoms can be
strong. Traders who have open positions will watch closely as price tests those
areas. But don’t underestimate the strength of ceilings and floors that formed
farther back on the chart. Price may reverse at a visible support or resistance
area that formed weeks, months, or even years in the past.
If you compress a daily chart and look back across its horizon, you’ll often
see very noticeable high and low points where the trend reversed direction.
(Those major support and resistance areas may even be 52-week highs or lows
for the stock.) When price approaches such an obvious ceiling or floor, the
trend is vulnerable once again to a change in direction. Those areas may be
tested again and again. It is a significant event when such a strong support or re-
sistance area is finally broken.
Example
Figure 9.4 shows a daily chart of General Motors Corp (GM), which is
compressed so that over a year of data is displayed. The horizontal trend
lines show major support and resistance areas on the chart where the
stock trended back and forth between $28 and $38. Those are not just
minor peaks and bottoms within an up or down trend that can be
surpassed easily. Those peaks and bottoms create a significant floor and
ceiling for the stock (price was approaching the floor again at the time
of this writing).
(continues)

JWBK100-Ch09.qxd 2/21/08 11:40 AM Page 179 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File
Support and Resistance 179
Example (continued)
FIGURE 9.4 Major resistance and support areas are very
recognizable
Source: TeleChart 2007®
If viewing only a few months of data on a daily chart, you may not recog-
nize when a stock is traversing between a major floor and ceiling. The moves be-
tween those points are literally intermediate-term, or in some cases long-term,
up and down trends on the daily chart. If you compress the daily chart to show
a couple of years of data, or shift up to the weekly time frame, you’ll have a
clearer view of the big picture.
Example
Figure 9.5 shows a chart of General Motors Corp. again, but this time
from a weekly vantage point. The intermediate-term up and down
trends between $28 and $38 on the daily chart form a trading range, or
rectangle, on the weekly chart. You can also see that the ceiling of that
weekly trading range formed at prior resistance at a prominent ceiling
from 2005.
(continues)

JWBK100-Ch09.qxd 2/21/08 11:40 AM Page 180 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File
180 EAST MEETS WEST
Example (continued)
FIGURE 9.5 General Motors is trapped in a trading range on
the weekly chart
Source: TeleChart 2007®
The GM chart in Figure 9.5 is a testament to the value of analyzing more
than one time frame. When analyzing a chart of a stock, always glance at the
time frame one level higher than the one you are trading on to check for promi-
nent support and resistance areas that may not be visible on the lower time
frame. For example, if the daily chart is the main time frame you trade, the
weekly chart is the next higher time frame.
Round Numbers
Periodically, a stock will have trouble moving past a round number. This occurs
most often at intervals of five or ten (prices ending in a five or a zero), for example
Example
Figure 9.6 shows a weekly chart of Rogers Corp. (ROG). A significant
floor was formed back in 2005 that would not be visible on the daily
chart. Price bounced at that floor in September 2007.
(continues)

JWBK100-Ch09.qxd 2/21/08 11:40 AM Page 181 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File
Support and Resistance 181
Example (continued)
FIGURE 9.6 Strong support on the weekly chart was too far in
the past to be visible on the daily chart
Source: TeleChart 2007®
25, 50, or 75. The 100 level (the “century mark”) is significant, and it is not
unusual to see a stock pull back after reaching that level. Round numbers are in-
visible barriers, and thus do not provide support or resistance nearly as often as
visible barriers such as prominent peaks and bottoms. If a stock retreats from a
round number one or more times though, that price action itself will set up a
visible ceiling or floor at that level.
It is fairly common for major market averages to stall at levels that end in
hundreds or thousands. They are psychologically charged numbers that are
Example
On the daily chart of Varian Inc. (VARI), shown in Figure 9.7, the
uptrend halted at $60 in March 2007. The March high was tested again
several times during April–May. The stock was unable to close above
that resistance area. Finally, on July 27, price broke through $60 and
closed above the strong ceiling.
(continues)

JWBK100-Ch09.qxd 2/21/08 11:40 AM Page 182 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File
182 EAST MEETS WEST
Example (continued)
FIGURE 9.7 A resistance area formed at a round number
Source: TeleChart 2007®
watched closely by traders. For instance, it was a very significant event when the
Dow Jones Industrial Average finally broke up through the 10,000 level.
Trend Lines
A trend line can be drawn below and connecting bottoms in order to highlight
a support area, or above and connecting peaks in order to highlight a resistance
area. The more times the support or resistance area is tested, the stronger it be-
comes. When a very long or strong trend line is broken, many traders will ob-
serve the event.
Trend lines may be drawn horizontally, connecting price peaks or bottoms
to help identify the approximate boundaries of a trading range (see Figure 9.5),
or a major ceiling or floor (see Figures 9.4 and 9.6) . They may also be drawn at
an angle connecting rising or declining peaks and bottoms in order to identify
the slope and length of the trend (refer to Chapter 7 and Figure 9.16 in this
chapter). Trend lines make it easy to see when price has closed above resistance
or below support.

JWBK100-Ch09.qxd 2/21/08 11:40 AM Page 183 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File
Support and Resistance 183
Smart Investor Tip
Trend lines may be extended so that traders can anticipate where price
might find potential support or resistance in the future. Your charting
program may have an extension feature that automatically projects the line
into the future, or you may elect to manually adjust the lines.
Other Areas of Support
and Resistance
In addition to peaks and bottoms, price may also find support or resistance at
the beginning of a gap and at strong moving averages.
Gaps May Provide Support or Resistance
As discussed in Chapter 8, a true gap is formed between two consecutive bars
when the current bar gaps above (gap up) or below (gap down) the prior bar’s
range. This price action leaves a void on the chart in which no trading took
place. It is common for price to trade back through that void and close it.
When a stock gaps up, the bottom of the void may provide support
when price declines back down to that level. The beginning of the gap up is
the high of the bar prior to the gap-up bar. Price may trade below the gap in-
traday (leaving a lower shadow) but it should close the session above it. If
price closes below the gap, the support area has been violated and the implica-
tion is bearish.
Example
Figure 9.8 shows a daily chart of Crane Co. (CR). Horizontal lines
have been drawn to indicate where price gapped up and later filled the
gap, which provided support from which price moved higher. That
scenario occurred twice on this chart—first in March 2007 and again
in May.
(continues)

JWBK100-Ch09.qxd 2/21/08 11:40 AM Page 184 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File
184 EAST MEETS WEST
Example (continued)
FIGURE 9.8 Beginning of an upside gap often provides support
when filled
Source: TeleChart 2007®
When a stock gaps down, the top of the void may provide resistance when
price rises back up to that level. In this case, the beginning of the gap is the low
of the bar prior to the gap-down bar. Price may trade above the gap intraday
(leaving an upper shadow), but it should close the session below it. If price
closes above the gap, the resistance area has been overcome and the message is
bullish.
Example
Figure 9.9 shows a daily chart of Estee Lauder Companies Inc. (EL).
The horizontal line indicates the resistance area at the beginning of the
gap, which was tested (1) on August 27, 2007. Price retreated and then
tested the resistance area again (2) in late September.
(continues)

JWBK100-Ch09.qxd 2/21/08 11:40 AM Page 185 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File
Support and Resistance 185
Example (continued)
FIGURE 9.9 Beginning of a downside gap often provides
resistance when filled
Source: TeleChart 2007®
Regardless of whether a gap is filled shortly after it has formed or weeks or
months later, the beginning of the gap has the potential to provide support (gap
up) or resistance (gap down). Price will not always fill the whole gap. The entire
vacuum between the two consecutive price bars may act as a zone of support or
resistance.
Moving Averages May Provide Support or Resistance
Unlike most other indicators that are plotted in panels below the chart (or above
it in some charting programs), moving averages are plotted directly in the chart
window. As the use of technical analysis has become more popular and wide-
spread, certain moving average lengths have gained recognition. For instance, the
50- and 200-period moving averages are closely monitored by traders. These
moving averages have the potential to provide support or resistance because
traders tend to react (buy or sell shares) as price approaches them.

JWBK100-Ch09.qxd 2/21/08 11:40 AM Page 186 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File
186 EAST MEETS WEST
The 50-day moving average is a strong intermediate-term average. It is ap-
proximately equal to the 10-week moving average (five trading days per week
× 10 = 50), which is often used by traders who view charts on the weekly time
frame. In other words, when price bounces at the 10-week moving average on
the weekly chart, it is bouncing at the 50-day moving average on the daily chart.
Example
Figure 9.10 shows a daily chart of AMB Property Corp (AMB). The
stock was in a downtrend from May through August 2007. Every
attempt to break up through the 50-period simple moving average
(SMA) during that time was met with failure.
FIGURE 9.10 Price found resistance several times at the
50-day SMA
Source:TeleChart 2007®
The 200-day is a long-term moving average. It is approximately equal to
the 40-week moving average (5 × 40 = 200), so it is also monitored by many
traders who utilize daily and/or weekly charts. Price tends to gravitate toward it
during a correction of a trend.
Moving averages are derived from price. They do not generally provide
support and resistance as readily as price peaks and bottoms that are created

JWBK100-Ch09.qxd 2/21/08 11:40 AM Page 187 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File
Support and Resistance 187
from the actual price action. However, do not underestimate the ability of the
50- and 200-period moving averages to stop a stock’s move, at least temporarily.
Those two moving average lengths tend to be strong on all time frames, even
though the correlation to the weekly chart mentioned previously is applicable
only on the daily time frame. Many novice traders are not aware of the correla-
tion and simply adopt the use of the 50- and 200-period moving averages, as-
suming they will work on various time frames, and often they do.
Debate over Simple versus Exponential The simple method of calculating a
moving average was presented in Chapter 7 and is the most commonly used.
The simple method assigns equal weight to each day’s price that is included in
the average. There are other ways to calculate a moving average, including
assigning a different weight to one or more of the prices in the set. One such
method that is popular among traders is an exponentially smoothed moving
average that weights the most recent prices heavier than the older prices.
Whether you use simple or exponential moving averages is a matter of personal
preference. Fortunately, mainstream charting programs do the calculations for
us, and users are given the option of selecting either simple or exponential.
SMAs are used exclusively in the chart examples provided in this book for
consistency, and to avoid displaying a “busy” chart that may distract from the
technical event(s) being emphasized. However, I do monitor both simple and ex-
ponential moving averages (EMAs). Many mainstream charting programs offer
users the ability to configure multiple chart templates. Different indicators can
be assigned to the various templates if desired to avoid indicator overload on one
template. One of my templates includes both the exponential and simple version
of the 50- and 200-period moving averages. I can quickly jump to that template
whenever I need to determine which version of the average appears to be more
powerful for the particular stock or index that I am evaluating. Some stocks may
find support or resistance at the SMA, and some at the EMA, or both. There-
fore, it certainly doesn’t hurt to plot both versions in the chart window.
Smart Investor Tip
If plotting both an SMA and an EMA of the same length, I recommend
assigning the same color for each but identifying one with a solid line
and one with a dashed or dotted line. For instance, I use dark green for
a 50-period moving average (against a white chart background) and
purple for a 200-period. The SMA is assigned a solid line because it is
easy to remember that they both start with the letter “s” (simple equals
solid). The EMA is plotted as a dotted line.

JWBK100-Ch09.qxd 2/21/08 11:40 AM Page 188 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File
188 EAST MEETS WEST
Some traders may argue that the SMA is the only one that matters and
there is no sense in looking at the EMA. I do not agree and could provide nu-
merous examples in which the EMA was quite strong.
Example
A case in point is a stock that I trade periodically: Shaw Group Inc.
(SGR). Figure 9.11 shows a daily chart of SGR. In the past, this stock
has had a tendency to obey both the 200-day SMA and the 200-day
EMA (see circled turning points). Without viewing both versions, one
would not be aware of this fact.
FIGURE 9.11 For several weeks, the stock found support or
resistance at both the 200-day EMA and the 200-day SMA
Source: TeleChart 2007®
Example
If you still are not certain that the EMAs are worth monitoring, take a
look at Figure 9.12, which shows a daily chart of the Nasdaq Composite
Index. In February and March 2007, the broad market sold off sharply
(continues)

JWBK100-Ch09.qxd 2/21/08 11:40 AM Page 189 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File
Support and Resistance 189
Example (continued)
and then bottomed out. The Nasdaq Composite Index formed a bullish
double bottom (dotted line) at the 200-period EMA. Similar events
occurred on the charts of the following indexes during that time period:
the Dow Jones Industrial Average, the S&P 500 Index, and the Russell
2000 Small-Cap Index.
FIGURE 9.12 Index found support at the 200-day EMA
Source: TeleChart 2007®
Support and Resistance Areas
Are Not Rigid Barriers
Support and resistance levels are not rigid, inflexible barriers. Don’t expect
price to always make an abrupt turn precisely at a floor or ceiling. Price may
turn a bit before, or move slightly beyond, those boundaries. Therefore, they
should be considered zones of support and resistance rather than exact turning
points.

JWBK100-Ch09.qxd 2/21/08 11:40 AM Page 190 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File
190 EAST MEETS WEST
Example
Figure 9.13 shows a daily chart of Dril-Quip Inc. (DRQ), which was
trapped in a trading range for a few months. The horizontal trend lines
illustrate the approximate upper and lower boundaries revealing the
rectangular shape.
FIGURE 9.13 Visible support and resistance areas
Source: TeleChart 2007®
Failure of Support or
Resistance Levels
As mentioned previously, minor support and resistance levels are formed as
price surges and then consolidates or pulls back. Price typically forms a series of
peaks and bottoms in the general direction of the trend. Those short-term
moves create temporary interruptions of the trend. In order for the trend to
continue its direction, those barriers must eventually be overcome.
Even very strong support or resistance areas are not infallible. Support and
resistance levels are not permanent barriers. Investors’ expectations change over
time. Eventually, most support and resistance levels are broken and traders

JWBK100-Ch09.qxd 2/21/08 11:40 AM Page 191 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File
Support and Resistance 191
accommodate the new higher, or lower, prices. There are a variety of events that
may cause the break of a strong floor or ceiling, including the following:
• News may be released that impacts a company’s stock.
• Funds are regularly rotated from one asset class, sector, or industry
group to another based on economic principles such as the business cy-
cle or monetary policy.
• An actual or anticipated change in a company’s fundamentals. For ex-
ample, a stock may break out above resistance, or break down below
support, when earnings are announced or if the company releases guid-
ance for upcoming quarters.
• A broad market rally or sell-off may raise or lower most stocks, regardless
of their financial worthiness. When the Dow Jones Industrial Average fell
over 400 points on February 27, 2007, support levels were irrelevant. All
of the major averages sold off and many stocks plunged through previ-
ously strong support levels that day, or in the following days.
Support and Resistance
Reverse Roles
Once support or resistance has been broken, it is very common for it to reverse
roles on the other side. When a stock breaks down through a floor, it often be-
comes a ceiling above price, and vice versa. This phenomenon is commonly
seen when price peaks or bottoms are broken.
The support-resistance role reversal may occur soon after the breakout or
breakdown. Often, price turns right back for a test of the prior ceiling or floor
(see Figure 9.14). That price action offers traders a low-risk opportunity to get
aboard the trend when price pulls back rather than chasing a runaway stock. The
stock often continues in the direction of the breakout or breakdown after pulling
back. Volume may offer an important clue as to the strength of the new move.
Example
The upside breakout on the daily chart of Myriad Genetics Inc. (MYGN)
in Figure 9.14 was accompanied by heavy volume. Volume declined
during the pullback, dropping below average as the prior ceiling was
tested as support. That was a good indication that the new higher price
level had been accepted.
(continues)

JWBK100-Ch09.qxd 2/21/08 11:40 AM Page 192 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File
192 EAST MEETS WEST
Example (continued)
FIGURE 9.14 Once broken, prior resistance became new
support
Source: TeleChart 2007®
Even if price does not pull back immediately, it is common to see a prior
ceiling or floor tested weeks or even months later during a correction of the
trend. Sometimes support and resistance reverse roles multiple times. The more
tests of support and resistance, the stronger that area becomes; price is likely to
reverse or consolidate there again in the future.
Example
On the daily chart of Ryerson Inc. (RYI), shown in Figure 9.15,
resistance that formed in March 2007 was broken in April and became
new support. Once that support level was broken in May, it became
resistance once again.
(continues)

JWBK100-Ch09.qxd 2/21/08 11:40 AM Page 193 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File
Support and Resistance 193
Example (continued)
FIGURE 9.15 Resistance became support and then resistance
again
Source: TeleChart 2007®
The reversal of roles may occur when horizontal support or resistance is
broken, but it may also occur when an angled trend line is broken.
It is also not unusual for a strong moving average, such as the 50- or 200-
period, to reverse roles when broken.
Example
On the daily chart of Omni Energy (OMNI) shown in Figure 9.16,
price trended up for several weeks off the January 2007 low. That
strong support trend line was broken in April. Once the uptrend
resumed in May, that prior support trend line was tested as resistance
several times.
(continues)

JWBK100-Ch09.qxd 2/21/08 11:40 AM Page 194 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File
194 EAST MEETS WEST
Example (continued)
FIGURE 9.16 Support trendline reversed roles
Source: TeleChart 2007®
Example
Figure 9.17 shows a daily chart of Golinhas Aereas (GOL). In February
2007, price rallied up to the 200-period SMA (1). Price retreated from
that strong average for a few weeks and then rose up to test it again. On
March 31, price gapped up open above the average but the bulls could
not sustain the new high and price closed below it (2). Not only was the
200-period SMA tested (at 2), but the February high (1) was at about
that same level, offering even more resistance. Finally, in May, price
punched up through the average and moved to a new high before
pulling back toward the average. On June 8, price gapped down open
(3) after the short-term decline and pierced the prior session’s long black
real body, leaving a bullish piercing pattern with the 200-period SMA
below for support.
(continues)

JWBK100-Ch09.qxd 2/21/08 11:40 AM Page 195 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File
Support and Resistance 195
Example (continued)
FIGURE 9.17 200-period SMA reversed roles
Source: TeleChart 2007®
Candlesticks at Support and Resistance
You may be surprised to discover how often candlestick reversal patterns form
at or near support and resistance areas. And recall from Chapter 5 that long
shadows are common at those areas, whether or not the candlestick line(s)
meets the criteria of a specific reversal pattern. One or more long shadows are
evidence of traders reacting when price tests a support or resistance area.
A daily chart of McDonald’s (MCD) is displayed in Figure 9.18. The
stock has been consolidating for a few months. The horizontal trend lines iden-
tify the ceiling and floor of the trading range. The following analysis explains
the events that occurred at the turning points as the trading range developed
between May and July 2007. The numbers that follow correspond to the num-
bers on the chart:
1. A bearish hanging man (1) formed after two long white candles. Be-
cause the candle prior to the hanging man was a long white candle it

JWBK100-Ch09.qxd 2/21/08 11:40 AM Page 196 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File
196 EAST MEETS WEST
FIGURE 9.18 Candlestick reversal signals at support and
resistance areas
Source: TeleChart 2007®
could also be interpreted as a bearish harami pattern. Price pulled back
for a couple of days before moving higher.
2. After a strong swing up, a bearish hanging man (2) formed on May 18.
Price declined from there back to the May 2 peak (at 1) where it found
support.
3. Two long lower shadows (3) formed on May 29 and 30 as the May 2
peak was tested as new support. The May 30 lower shadow was long
enough for many traders to interpret it as a hammer.
4. Price rallied back up and found resistance at the May high. A long upper
shadow (4) formed there on June 19. It was nearly long enough to be a
shooting star. That shadow showed that there was an intraday breakout
above the May high but the bulls were not able to sustain the breakout.
5. Price declined back to the floor that had been established by the May 2
peak (at 1) and the May 30 bottom (at 3). Notice the long lower shad-
ows (5) that formed as price tested support. That showed the willing-
ness of bulls to step into long positions at the support area.
6. Price did not make it all the way back to the top of the trading range
before turning back down to test the floor again. A bullish piercing
pattern (6) formed on July 11 at support.

JWBK100-Ch09.qxd 2/21/08 11:40 AM Page 197 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File
Support and Resistance 197
7. Price made another swing up across the channel. The long upper
shadow (7) on July 13 was an indication of selling near the strong resis-
tance level. The stock gapped up open the next morning, reversed im-
mediately at the ceiling (shaven top), and filled by the end of the
session leaving a morning gap.
Not all reversals at support and resistance levels will include a candlestick
signal, but many do.

JWBK100-Ch09.qxd 2/21/08 11:40 AM Page 198 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File

JWBK100-ch10.qxd 2/21/08 11:41 AM Page 199 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File
10
Chapter
Putting Candlestick
Reversal Patterns
to Work
Now that you have learned about the primary candlestick reversal pat-
terns and some basics of Western charting, it’s time to determine how
you’ll put the reversal signals to work. The candlestick reversal patterns
may be used by traders in several ways, including the following:
• Trading opportunities. Traders may initiate trades based solely on the
presence of a candlestick pattern.
• Reinforce another setup. Traders may look for candlestick signals that
form in conjunction with larger price setups, or where price is testing
support or resistance.
• Warning to take profits. Traders may interpret a reversal pattern as a
warning to exit an open position, or at least take a defensive stance.
This chapter will address these uses for the reversal signals, as well as provide
some suggestions for finding patterns and controlling risk to your capital. In-depth
instruction on risk management and trade management is beyond the scope of this
book. Novice traders are strongly advised to pursue additional study of those topics.
Practice Spotting Candlestick Patterns
It takes practice to convert knowledge to skill. Before you can utilize the can-
dlestick patterns, you must be able to recognize them. Schedule some time to
199

JWBK100-ch10.qxd 2/21/08 11:41 AM Page 200 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File
200 EAST MEETS WEST
immediately start evaluating charts in order to develop your pattern recognition
skills. You may need to review Chapter 3 a few times first so you feel certain
that you understand the psychology behind each of the primary reversal pat-
terns. A quick reference guide is also provided in Appendix A.
Smart Investor Tip
If you don’t already use a charting service, you’ll need to subscribe to
one that either provides end-of-day or real-time data. TeleChart,
MetaStock, TradeStation, QCharts, and eSignal are a few of the many
fine charting services available. Many vendors offer a 30-day free trial to
allow potential subscribers to explore their platforms. Stockcharts.com
provides limited charting with end-of-day data at no charge; so there is
no reason you can’t start evaluating charts right away.
The goal is to train your eye to quickly spot candlestick reversal patterns.
Evaluate many charts, one after another; the repetition will be helpful. If you
are not sure what stocks to evaluate, select some symbols from the S&P 500 In-
dex component list included in Appendix B. Focus primarily on the turning
points (peaks and bottoms) on a chart and you’ll locate reversal patterns. If a
chart is messy and hard to decipher, just skip past it. When you locate a reversal
pattern, make note of the surrounding chart landscape. Did the pattern form at
a support or resistance area? Did the stochastic oscillator confirm the signal?
Was it an ideal reversal pattern, or was it a nonideal pattern or variation? Was a
strong reversal pattern, such as an engulfing pattern or a hammer, accompanied
by heavy volume? Eventually, it will not only be very easy for you to recognize
the reversal patterns, but you’ll learn to look for supporting Western technical
occurrences that assist you in determining which signals are most likely to fol-
low through. Once you are able to recognize the patterns, you can determine
how you’ll implement them in your trading.
As part of your analysis, don’t forget about the bigger picture. Consult the
charts of the broad market averages: the Dow Jones Industrial Average, the
S&P 500 Index, and the Nasdaq Composite Index. While browsing through
charts, you may notice that between certain dates a lot of bullish patterns
seemed to fail. That may result in your questioning the validity of the signals.
But perhaps that occurred during a time when the broad market was selling off.
Remember that stocks, regardless of how bullish a setup or how good the com-
pany fundamentals, may be pulled down during a broad market decline. Con-
versely, if the market is rallying, even stocks with weak charts and/or poor
fundamentals may get a temporary boost.

JWBK100-ch10.qxd 2/21/08 11:41 AM Page 201 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File
Putting Candlestick Reversal Patterns to Work 201
Reversal Patterns Provide Trading
Opportunities
The candlestick reversal patterns can be utilized for trade setups. Recall that a
setup is an identifiable price formation that presents a potentially profitable
trading opportunity. Among the numerous setups for traders to choose from are
candlestick patterns. A strategy is the method a trader uses to trade a setup.
Some traders may wish to devise a strategy for trading one or more of the can-
dlestick reversal patterns. Bullish reversal patterns can be used to initiate long
positions, and bearish patterns for short positions.
Traders cannot be certain that a candlestick pattern is present until the
close of the trading session. Therefore, if trading a candlestick signal, a position
may be entered very near the end of the session on the signal day, or after the
open of the following session. As indicated in Chapter 3, for some reversal pat-
terns it is best to wait for confirmation before entering a position. Make sure to
carefully review the criteria and psychology of each candlestick pattern you wish
to trade.
Searching for Reversal Patterns
For centuries, the Japanese did not have the aid of computers for chart analysis.
They fared quite well using a trained eye to find the formations on charts that
were drawn by hand. Of course, that was before the days when there were thou-
sands of stocks available to trade.
If you trade a single instrument, such as the S&P e-mini, or a limited
number of stocks, you won’t need to run computerized scans to find reversal
patterns. Patterns can be located simply by evaluating the charts. In fact, it
would be beneficial to recognize and understand all of the reversal patterns pre-
sented in Chapter 3 in order to expand the trading opportunities rather than
waiting for just one specific pattern to form.
Some traders may prefer to trade one or more specific candlestick pat-
terns. In that case, they’ll need to flush out the stocks that meet the pattern’s cri-
teria so they can choose good-looking setups from among them. There are
currently about 7,000 stocks traded on the three major U.S. exchanges: the
New York Stock Exchange (NYSE), the American Stock Exchange (AMEX),
and the Nasdaq. Traders who wish to find a particular reversal pattern among
hundreds or thousands of stocks can save a tremendous amount of time by al-
lowing the computer to do most of the work.
Computerized Screening The ever-increasing power and speed of personal
computers has made searching for candlestick patterns easy. Many of the
mainstream charting programs offer users the capability to code the criteria that

JWBK100-ch10.qxd 2/21/08 11:41 AM Page 202 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File
202 EAST MEETS WEST
identifies the patterns. Users can quickly scan for candlestick patterns among
the thousands of stocks traded on the exchanges.
Coding the Candlestick Patterns Thosewho wish to trade one or more of the
candlestick reversal signals and scan for them among a large number of stocks
will need to define the criteria for each formation. For instance, TeleChart users
can create Personal Criteria Formulas (PCFs) for the patterns. The PCFs can
then be used to sort or scan for stocks that meet the pattern’s criteria.
Fortunately, the criteria of all the patterns have already been defined by
traders who were generous enough to share that information with others.
TeleChart users can access www.tradeon.com, a free web site, to obtain the for-
mulas for candlesticks. The web site includes the code for all of the candlestick
lines and the reversal patterns discussed in this book (as well as several reversal
and continuation patterns that were not covered). On the home page, click the
down arrow to the right of “Beginners & Misc. Information” and select Candle-
stick PCF Tutorial (Figure 10.1). On the candlesticks page, use the scroll bar to
the right to search for the candlestick pattern(s) you wish to trade (Figure 10.2).
A PCF must be created in TeleChart for each candlestick pattern. The code can
be highlighted and copied from the tradeon.com web page and pasted directly
into a PCF in TeleChart. For more information on TeleChart, visit the web site
at www.telechart.com.
FIGURE 10.1 Tradeon.com web site
Source: www.tradeon.com

JWBK100-ch10.qxd 2/21/08 11:41 AM Page 203 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File
Putting Candlestick Reversal Patterns to Work 203
FIGURE 10.2 Code for candlesticks is available
free at www.tradeon.com
Source: www.tradeon.com
Traders who do not use TeleChart should contact the vendor of their
charting service to inquire if there are similar online resources where users share
code in that program’s language. Even if you cannot find such a resource, you
can use the code from tradeon.com to extrapolate the criteria for the various
patterns and write it in the language of your charting software. The language for
each charting platform may differ some; however, the coding concepts are usu-
ally similar. For example, TradeStation is a powerful charting platform. Their
proprietary EasyLanguage® allows users to designate criteria for screening. For
more information on TradeStation, visit the web site at www.tradestation.com.
Those who wish to utilize the TradeStation platform can get a substantial dis-
count off the monthly fee by opening a brokerage account with them; the soft-
ware is linked to their brokerage services. If you are a MetaStock user, the code
has been written and is available for purchase as a plug-in. For more informa-
tion about MetaStock, visit the web site at www.metastock.com.
Filter for Price and Volume Traderscan also reduce the number of stocks to
be analyzed by utilizing a price and volume filter. This is a great technique to
use in conjunction with a scan that isolates a specific pattern from among a
large number of stocks. Such a filter can be used to narrow down the stocks in
anyscan or list of stocks, not just candlestick scans.
First, determine the price range of stocks you wish to trade. The desired
price range may vary widely from one trader to the next. If you are not sure
what price range to select, consider using a simple model based on account size.
Say Trader A has a trading account of $50,000. For that account size, I don’t
recommend investing more than 20 percent of the account in the stock of one

JWBK100-ch10.qxd 2/21/08 11:41 AM Page 204 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File
204 EAST MEETS WEST
company. Therefore, no more than $10,000 could be used to purchase one
stock and the trader could purchase up to five stocks in this account (or more if
less than $10,000 is committed per stock). Personally, I don’t typically buy a
stock that I cannot afford at least 200 shares of, but at a minimum, I’d recom-
mend figuring for no less than 100 shares (less than 100 shares is referred to as
an odd lot). Divide $10,000 by 100 shares for a maximum price per share of
$100, or divide $10,000 by 200 shares for a maximum of $50 per share. Next,
determine the minimum share price. For instance, many traders elect to trade
stocks that are $5 per share or higher because stocks below $5 may not be mar-
ginable. Using these parameters, the price range would be $5 to $50 if you wish
to trade a minimum of 200 shares, or $5 to $100 for a minimum of 100 shares.
Think of the model outlined above as trading within the means of your
account. Most aspiring traders who do not succeed in this business fail due to
poor risk and money management methods. Diversification and position sizing
are two very important factors to consider.
Example
Google (GOOG) is currently trading above $500 per share. Buying
shares of Google could tie up a substantial amount of capital, which
may not be a challenge for a large account, but could be problematic for
a smaller account. Trader A would have to invest his entire account of
$50,000 in Google just to buy 100 shares. That would be an error in
judgment, as the account would be over-allocated to one stock. If
Google got unexpected news one evening and dropped 10 percent the
next day, Trader A’s entire account would be drawn down by 10 percent.
However, if Trader A limited the purchase of one stock to 20 percent of
the account, and the stock fell 10 percent, the trader’s account would be
drawn down by only 2 percent. In addition, implementing a rule for
diversification will keep him focused on stocks that are priced
appropriately for the account size.
Trader B has a larger account of $250,000. Putting 20 percent, or
$50,000, into one stock would mean lot more exposure in one company. Trader
B should break her account down further, for example, into 10 blocks of
$25,000 or 15 blocks of approximately $16,500. That means managing more
trades in order to get the account fully invested—that is a “quality problem”!
There are different schools of thought on the best way to determine posi-
tion sizing and for diversifying one’s account. The above-referenced model was
presented because it is simple for novice traders to understand and implement.

JWBK100-ch10.qxd 2/21/08 11:41 AM Page 205 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File
Putting Candlestick Reversal Patterns to Work 205
As traders gain experience, they should study various risk management models
to determine which is best suited for their trading style and risk tolerance. Re-
gardless of how you ultimately decide to invest your account, it is paramount
that protection of capital be the top priority. Using stop loss orders to limit loss
is another way to protect your capital.
Once you have determined the price range for the stocks you’ll trade, it is
time to think of the stock’s liquidity. Decide on the minimum average volume
per day you’ll require for a stock to be deemed liquid enough to comfortably
trade. Again, that level may vary from one trader to the next.
Example
With few exceptions, I trade stocks ranked in the 50 to 99 percentile for
average daily volume over the past 90 days. That equates to a minimum
of approximately 125,000 shares per day. I periodically trade stocks
below the 50 percentile, but the majority of my trades are above that
level. Novice traders may elect to start with more heavily traded stocks
to avoid problems with order fills and excessive slippage. For instance,
stocks in the 70 to 99 percentile trade a minimum of about half a
million shares per day.
Combine the two concepts outlined above into one filter and you have
the following price-volume criterion for an account of $50,000: average daily
volume of 125,000 shares or higher (if designating the 50 to 99 percentile) and
stocks that are priced between $5 and $50. By using such a filter, you’ll elimi-
nate all the stocks that don’t fall into your price-volume parameters. Then you
can scan the remaining stocks for the candlestick pattern(s), or other set-ups,
that you wish to trade.
Your charting program may have a feature that allows you to create a
price-volume filter and apply it to any list of stocks. In TeleChart, both the
price and volume filters can be designated by creating a single Easy Scan. The
price-volume Easy Scan can then be laid over any watch list, or over any other
Easy Scan, using TeleChart’s sublist feature.
If you use TeleChart and are not familiar with the scanning and sublisting
processes mentioned in this chapter, contact the vendor for training materials or
feel free to e-mail me for assistance. You can reach me at tina@tinalogan.com or
through my web site at www.tinalogan.com.
If you use a program other than TeleChart, I encourage you to contact the
vendor and inquire if similar filtering techniques are available in their platform.
It is not my intention to steer you toward using TeleChart. Many mainstream

JWBK100-ch10.qxd 2/21/08 11:41 AM Page 206 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File
206 EAST MEETS WEST
Example
Figure 10.3 shows the TeleChart watch list window. A scan for bullish
engulfing patterns was run with a price-volume sublist applied. On the
day this scan was run (October 5, 2007), only 168 of over 7,000 stocks
met the criteria of a bullish engulfing pattern. But once the price-
volume sublist was applied, only 33 stocks remained. You can see how
this dramatically reduces the number of stocks to be evaluated.
FIGURE 10.3 TeleChart watch list window
Source: TeleChart 2007®
charting platforms include some type of screening mechanism. You must decide
which charting service is best suited to your trading needs. It is important,
though, if you intend to search for setups among a large number of stocks, that
you understand such tools and features are available with a good charting pro-
gram. It may help you distinguish one platform from another when determining
where you’ll spend your money.
Limitations of Computerized Scanning Computers can reduce the amount
of work required to isolate stocks that exhibit a certain candlestick pattern. That
does not release the trader from the responsibility of knowing the psychology of
the pattern, as well as an understanding of Western technical analysis.

JWBK100-ch10.qxd 2/21/08 11:41 AM Page 207 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File
Putting Candlestick Reversal Patterns to Work 207
A computer cannot discern whether one pattern appears to be a more
viable candidate than another. A computer cannot look across the chart land-
scape and see where areas of support and resistance lie that may help or hinder a
stock’s movement. It cannot spot a divergence, nor can it tell you whether there
is an adequate reward-to-risk ratio to justify a trade. A computer can only nar-
row down a large list of stocks to a much smaller list of potential trade opportu-
nities. After that, it is up to you to review that list, making a visual inspection of
each chart, and further reducing the number of stocks to only those that merit
the commitment of your funds.
Another challenge with computerized screening is that a nonideal pattern,
or a slight variation of a pattern, may be excluded because it falls short of meet-
ing the requirements designated in the formula. Remember that nonideal pat-
terns and variations can be just as strong as some ideal patterns when considered
in the context of the surrounding price action.
Reward versus Risk
In Chapter 3, reference was made in regard to several of the reversal patterns that,
by the time the signal is apparent, there may not be an adequate reward-to-risk ra-
tio to justify a trade. The reward versus the risk should be considered beforeentering
a trade, regardless of whether it is a candlestick pattern or some other price setup. If
the potential reward does not outweigh the risk involved by a sufficient amount, a
trader should pass on the trade or wait for a better entry opportunity to set up.
The reward is the potential profit on the trade. It is the gain that a trader
will recognize if a trade moves from the entry price to an exit point he has de-
termined based on analysis of the chart. That exit point is referred to as the tar-
getor price objective.
The risk for a trade is the amount of money that will be lost if the trade
does not follow through as anticipated. It is the distance from the entry price to
the point where the trader has determined that the position will be exited be-
cause it has failed. The failure point is where the initial protective stop-loss or-
der would be placed.
The reward compared to the risk is often referenced as a ratio. To calculate
the reward-to-risk ratio, simply divide the amount of potential reward by the
amount of potential risk. For example, if the distance to the target is four
points, and the distance to the protective stop is two points, the reward-to-risk
ratio is 2. There is twice as much potential reward as risk. A ratio of 1 means
that the potential risk is as great as the potential gain—that is a poor ratio. The
higher the reward-to-risk ratio, the better the trading opportunity. I suggest al-
ways trying to select trade setups that will net at least twice as much potential
gain as loss. And ideally, that ratio will be 3:1 or better on many trades.

JWBK100-ch10.qxd 2/21/08 11:41 AM Page 208 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File
208 EAST MEETS WEST
Example
Figure 10.4 shows how to compare the reward to the risk. A trader is
considering entering near the close of the bullish engulfing pattern at
the right edge of the chart. There is an area of resistance overhead that
offers a reasonable target for a swing trade. The low of the bullish
engulfing pattern is the failure point for this setup. The distance to the
target (reward) is about 2.5 times the distance to the failure point (risk).
FIGURE 10.4 Reward versus risk
Source: TeleChart 2007®
Example
Figure 10.5 shows a daily chart of Pier 1 Imports Inc. (PIR). The stock
was in a downtrend during July 2007. Price accelerated to the downside
in late July and early August, moving far away from the 20-period SMA.
That short-term oversold condition was alleviated by a rally from
August 6 to 9. On August 9, a spinning top formed after the prior day’s
long bullish candle creating a bearish star pattern and alerting that the
rally may be running out of steam. It was followed in the next session by
a strong bearish engulfing pattern. A swing trader might use the
engulfing setup to initiate a short position. The swing target (reward)
would be to resistance at the August low. The failure point (risk) would
be to the high of the engulfing candle. The reward-to-risk ratio would
be only about 1.5, not enough to justify the trade.
(continues)

JWBK100-ch10.qxd 2/21/08 11:41 AM Page 209 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File
Putting Candlestick Reversal Patterns to Work 209
Example (continued)
FIGURE 10.5 Reward-to-risk ratio of less than 2
Source: TeleChart 2007®
Swing trading strategies typically call for determining the failure point
and price target. Thus, determining the reward-to-risk ratio in advance of initi-
ating a trade is part of a swing trader’s work when evaluating the viability of a
setup.
Trend-following strategies may not call for determining price objectives
since the goal is to enter a trending stock and ride the trend until it reverses.
Even if a trader does not have a specific price objective for a trade, it is still pru-
dent to enter where the initial stop would not be prohibitively far away.
Don’t Forget about Volatility
Even if a setup provides an adequate reward-to-risk ratio, it does not neces-
sarily mean it merits an entry. Using the example of PIR in Figure 10.5, if a
short position were entered near the close of market, with the protective
buy-to-cover stop a little bit above the high of the bearish engulfing pattern,
the stop would be about 10 percent away. For swing trades, I have a general
risk control rule that my stop should never be more than 10 percent away
from the current price of the stock. Thus, the PIR entry would be right at
my maximum allowed for a stop. I prefer to trade setups that offer an entry
that is closer to the failure point to minimize the potential loss and improve
the reward-to-risk ratio.

JWBK100-ch10.qxd 2/21/08 11:41 AM Page 210 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File
210 EAST MEETS WEST
I look at both the reward-to-risk ratio and how far, percentage-wise, the
stop would be from my entry price. If a stock is quite volatile, even if the reward-
to-risk ratio is adequate, the stop may be too far away. In such a case, I’ll either
skip the trade or shift to an intraday strategy to trade the stock. Remember, the
10 percent maximum for a swing trade is not to be used as an arbitrary
stop level. The stop should be placed at the failure point, but not to exceed 10
percent.
Reversal Patterns May Reinforce
Other Setups
Rather than entering trades based solely on the presence of candlestick reversal
patterns, traders may look for patterns that form in conjunction with larger
price setups. For example, a bullish candlestick reversal pattern may form the
second bottom of a larger Western double bottom pattern as shown in several
examples throughout this book. I refer to these setups as a “pattern within a
pattern.” This is one of the uses for candlestick patterns that I favor.
The presence of a candlestick pattern within a larger pattern, such as the
hammer that formed the potential double bottom in the STJ example (Figure
10.6), provides an opportunity for an assertive entry into a long position for
traders who prefer not to wait for the larger double bottom pattern to confirm.
(For a double bottom to confirm, price must close above the peak between the
two bottoms.) Bottoming patterns often form as a long downtrend is coming to
an end, or at that completion of a correction of a long-term uptrend, and vice
versa for topping patterns. Traders wishing to get aboard a new trend, or a re-
sumption of the trend, as early as possible, may favor setups such as the STJ ex-
ample. Protective stops should be used to limit loss in the event the bottoming
pattern is not successful at reversing the trend.
Support and Resistance
Another application for the candlestick reversal patterns is to choose setups that
form at support (bullish patterns) or resistance (bearish patterns). As discussed in
Chapter 9, price often finds support (or resistance) at prior price peaks and bot-
toms, strong moving averages, and at the beginning of a gap window.
Some traders (myself included) may feel more comfortable entering bull-
ish patterns, such as those shown in the FLR example (Figure 10.7), where
there is support below rather than if they form during a decline in which there
is no visible support that will attract the attention of market participants. This
approach works well for swing trading strategies, but also can be employed for
entry into longer-term positions.

JWBK100-ch10.qxd 2/21/08 11:41 AM Page 211 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File
Putting Candlestick Reversal Patterns to Work 211
Example
Figure 10.6 shows a daily chart of Saint Jude Medical Inc. (STJ). In
February–March 2007, price declined and found support at the 200-
period simple moving average (SMA) on March 14. Another test of the
200-period SMA occurred on March 30, setting up the potential for a
Western double bottom reversal pattern (dotted line). The March 30
candle was a hammer.
FIGURE 10.6 Hammer formed at support at the prior bottom
and the 200-period simple moving average
Source: TeleChart 2007®
Convergence of Signals
The setup shown in Figure 10.6 was very desirable because there was a conver-
gence of signals.Signals converge when there are two or more bullish (or bearish)
events that intersect. In this case, not only was there a candlestick reversal signal
(hammer) within a Western reversal pattern (double bottom), but there was
support below provided by the 200-period SMA. Figure 10.7 also provided a
convergence of signals.
Even with a convergence of signals there is no guarantee that the setup
will follow through as anticipated; however, with several signals present many
traders will notice the setup increasing the likelihood of a successful outcome.

JWBK100-ch10.qxd 2/21/08 11:41 AM Page 212 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File
212 EAST MEETS WEST
Example
Figure 10.7 shows a daily chart of Fluor Corp. (FLR). After a price
decline, price gapped down open on June 8 to near the 50-day SMA,
reversed direction, and closed well into the prior black candle’s real body
leaving a bullish piercing pattern. In addition to the strong moving
average just below, the horizontal line drawn on the chart shows that
there was additional support provided by prior minor peaks and
bottoms that formed in April–May. Another swing up followed the
piercing pattern ending with a northern doji near the June high. Price
pulled back again from June 18 to 26. Price gapped down open on June
27, tested support again at the 50-day SMA and the prior bottoms, and
closed the session as a bullish engulfing pattern.
FIGURE 10.7 Bullish reversal patterns formed at support
Source: TeleChart 2007®
In summary, although I will periodically trade a candlestick pattern in iso-
lation, it is my preference to trade those that form where there is additional am-
munition for a move in the anticipated direction. As long as there are many trade
opportunities to choose from, I’ll always gravitate toward the setups that offer a
higher likelihood of following through. When I do trade based strictly on the ap-
pearance of a candlestick signal, I look for confirmation from other technical

JWBK100-ch10.qxd 2/21/08 11:41 AM Page 213 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File
Putting Candlestick Reversal Patterns to Work 213
tools, such as volume and/or the stochastic oscillator. Even traders who wish to
run computerized scans looking for specific candlestick patterns can apply these
Western techniques in order to isolate the most promising setups.
Reversal Patterns can Provide
Warnings
Another effective way to utilize the candlestick reversal signals is for warnings to
lighten up, or exit, an open position. This is especially helpful for swing traders
who hold positions for a few days to a few weeks. Rather than holding on as the
market zigs and zigs like a longer-term investor may do, the swing trader ex-
ploits the short-term moves within a trend.
Candlestick reversal signals can be used to exit a trade, or at least take a
defensive stance, for those who do not wish to hold through a potential pull-
back or period of consolidation. Swing traders holding long positions should
watch for bearish reversal signals. Those holding short positions should watch
for bullish reversal signals.
A challenge with utilizing the reversal signals in this manner is that you
won’t know until the close of the trading session that the pattern is present. As
discussed in Chapters 2 and 4, the candlestick can change shape throughout the
session so a close is necessary in order to identify the pattern. For some reversal
patterns, that means price may have moved significantly against your position
by the session’s end (for example, a dark cloud cover or an engulfing pattern) as
you wait to see how the candle looks by the end of the session. Recall from dis-
cussion in Chapter 8, though, that many times a reversal pattern will begin as
an opening gap. Swing traders may elect to exit a position that gaps after a di-
rectional move. By the end of the session, it won’t matter if a strong reversal
candlestick pattern has formed because you’ll have used the gap to exit early in
the day. Another option is to lighten up by selling part of the position on the
opening gap (or in pre-market trading) and maintain a protective stop on the
balance of the position.
Short Selling
Several times in this book you’ve seen reference to “shorting” a stock. For in-
stance, some traders may utilize bearish candlestick signals to initiate short posi-
tions. Shorting is a confusing concept for many novice traders, but it really need
not be. Selling short is the opposite of going long. Instead of buying and then
selling, the trader is selling and then buying. When a trader enters a long position,

JWBK100-ch10.qxd 2/21/08 11:41 AM Page 214 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File
214 EAST MEETS WEST
shares of the stock are purchased in anticipation that the price will rise and
the stock will be sold at a higher price. When a trader enters a short position,
the shares are sold in anticipation of a price decline. If the stock declines, the
shares can be bought at a lower price, which is referred to as covering.
Example
If a long position is taken on a stock at $50 and the stock rises to $60
and is sold, the trader recognizes a gain of $10 per share. If a stock is
sold short at $60 and covered at $50, the trader recognizes a profit of
$10 per share.
Short selling has some restrictions:
• The shares must be borrowed from the brokerage firm in order to sell
short. The broker may not have shares in their inventory to lend, so
traders should not assume they’ll always be able to execute a short posi-
tion. If demand is high to short the stock, the broker may not have
shares available at the time you wish to borrow them. You may be noti-
fied later by the broker when shares do become available; however, in
some cases, by the time that occurs, the trade is no longer desirable.
• A margin account is required in order to sell short because the shares
must be borrowed. Therefore, short selling is not allowed in tax-deferred
retirement accounts because they are nonmargin accounts.
Until recently, there was an uptick rule for shorting
stocks. That meant price must trade higher than the last
margin price before an order to sell short could be filled. The rule,
account which was implemented by the Securities and Exchange
A brokerage Commission (SEC) back in the 1930s in order to curtail a
account that bear raid on a stock, was eliminated in July 2007.
permits an Novice traders often shy away from shorting due
investor to buy to lack of understanding and a sense that it is a risky
or sell practice. Some traders cite the concern that there is
securities on no limit to how high the stock’s price could rise, thus
credit and to setting up the potential for unlimited loss. However,
borrow against traders should not find themselves in this position if
securities held they implement proper risk and money management
in the account. rules. It is not the practice of shorting that is risky,
but rather the actions of the trader who fails to

JWBK100-ch10.qxd 2/21/08 11:41 AM Page 215 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File
Putting Candlestick Reversal Patterns to Work 215
protect his capital. Just like with a long position, a protective stop order can
be used to limit loss on a short position. A protective stop-loss order for a
long position is called a sell stop. It is placed below the current price at a level
where the trader would no longer wish to hold a position in that stock. For
a short position, a buy stop (or buy-to-cover stop) is placed above the cur-
rent price at a level where the trader would no longer wish to be short the
stock.
Short selling offers traders the opportunity to take advantage of a de-
clining market. I once heard it said that “the bull walks up the stairway but
the bear jumps out the window.” This is a clever way of saying that prices
tend to fall faster than they rise. Experienced traders can profit handsomely in
a down market. For new traders, though, it is usually best if they become
skilled at trading the long side first and then begin to develop their shorting
skills.
ProShares ETFs
Exchange-traded funds (ETFs) have become increasingly
popular with investors over the past decade or so. Origi- exchange-
nally designed to track a stock index, such as the S&P traded fund
500 Index, ETFs have expanded and now track com- (ETF)
modities, sectors, and so on. A security that
There are now ETFs available that offer an alterna- tracks an index,
tive to shorting. ProShares offers a unique breed of ETFs a commodity,
that are designed to go up when their underlying indexes or a specific
go down(and vice versa). In other words, a long position group of
is taken in the ETF while the market is declining because stocks, for
the ETF moves the opposite direction of the market. example,
These inverse ETFs offer a solution to market partici- semiconductors.
pants who want to take advantage of a declining market An ETF
but do not wish to short stocks, or cannot do so in their represents a
tax-deferred retirement accounts. basket of
ProShares has introduced several such ETFs in recent stocks, like an
years. The first inverse ETFs introduced correspond to index fund
the major averages. Traders have a choice of short or ultra- does, but it is
short ETFs. The ultra-short ETFs are designed to double traded like a
the performance of the index. The short and ultra-short stock.
symbols for the market averages are listed below:
Dow Jones Industrial Average: DOG and DXD
S&P 500 Large-Cap Index: SH and SDS
S&P 400 Midcap Index: MYY and MZZ

JWBK100-ch10.qxd 2/21/08 11:41 AM Page 216 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File
216 EAST MEETS WEST
Nasdaq 100 Index: PSQ and QID
Russell 2000 Small-Cap Index: RWM and TWM
ProShares has since designed several more such ETFs that correspond to
sectors and industry groups, such as DUG that is the symbol for the ProShares
UltraShort Oil & Gas ETF. For more information on these ETFs, visit the
ProShares web site at www.proshares.com.
Trading Requires Commitment
The markets do not hand out riches easily. The odds of winning are stacked
against the novice trader. Becoming a successful trader requires persistence and
discipline, and the willingness to commit to learning how the markets work.
This book, because of its “getting started in” focus, provides novice traders a
foundation from which to get started with candlestick charting as well as West-
ern technical analysis. If you wish to survive in this competitive business, be
tenacious; continue your study beyond these pages, and develop experience
through lots of practice with real-world chart analysis and trading. If you
would like to pursue further training with me, please visit my web site at
www.tinalogan.com. I have dedicated many years to developing training mate-
rials and methods to help traders succeed.

JWBK100-Ch11.qxd 2/21/08 11:42 AM Page 217 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File
11
Chapter
Practice Sets
Now that you have been introduced to both Eastern candlesticks and
Western technical analysis, and realize how powerful they are when
blended, it is time to recap and reinforce what you have learned.
Pattern Recognition Quiz
Let’s start with a quick test of your recall of the primary reversal patterns intro-
duced in Chapter 3. The arrows in the chart examples (Figures 11.1 through
11.8) point to reversal patterns. See how many of the patterns you can identify.
Record your answers below each chart or on a separate sheet of paper. Don’t
worry if you don’t remember some of them at first glance. With practice, you
will soon know them all. The answers are included following the set of charts,
but try to figure out the patterns on your own before checking the answers. Re-
fer to the quick reference guide in Appendix A if needed.
217

JWBK100-Ch11.qxd 2/21/08 11:42 AM Page 218 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File
218 EAST MEETS WEST
FIGURE 11.1 Chart Example 1 FIGURE 11.2 Chart Example 2
FIGURE 11.3 Chart Example 3 FIGURE 11.4 Chart Example 4

JWBK100-Ch11.qxd 2/21/08 11:42 AM Page 219 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File
Practice Sets 219
FIGURE 11.5 Chart Example 5 FIGURE 11.6 Chart Example 6
FIGURE 11.7 Chart Example 7 FIGURE 11.8 Chart Example 8

JWBK100-Ch11.qxd 2/21/08 11:42 AM Page 220 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File
220 EAST MEETS WEST
Answer Key for Pattern Recognition Quiz
Figure 11.1: A = southern doji; B = northern doji; C = piercing pattern; D =
bullish engulfing pattern
Figure 11.2: A = piercing pattern (but not quite to the half-way point of
the prior black real body); B = hanging man; C = bearish engulfing pattern
Figure 11.3: A = hammer; B = bullish engulfing pattern; C = hammer
Figure 11.4: A = inverted hammer; B = bearish harami cross (second can-
dle is also a dragonfly doji)
Figure 11.5: A = shooting star; B = evening star (middle candle is also a
hanging man)
Figure 11.6: A = bullish harami; B = morning star (middle candle is also
an inverted hammer)
Figure 11.7: A = bearish harami cross (second candle is also a near dragon-
fly doji); B = dark cloud cover
Figure 11.8: A = hanging man; B = bearish engulfing pattern; C = ham-
mer; D = bearish harami
Detailed Chart Analysis
Now it is time for you to analyze some charts in more detail. Three case studies
follow that incorporate candlestick lines and reversal patterns covered in Part I
of this book, as well as Western technical occurrences presented in Part II.
Analyze each numbered event and record your observations below the
chart or on a separate sheet of paper. Each number on the chart may refer to a
distinctive candle line or a reversal pattern, and/or a Western technical event
such as a test of support-resistance or an overextended condition. Volume bars
with a 30-day simple moving average of volume, and the stochastic oscillator
(12-3-3 setting), are plotted in the panels below each chart example to assist
with your analysis. Once you have finished evaluating each chart, compare your
analysis to the commentary at the end of the chapter to see the author’s perspec-
tive of the same set of charts.
The goal of this exercise is to guide you toward the significant technical
occurrences on the charts so that you can condition what you have learned. Nu-
merous technical incidents may occur on a daily chart over a period of a few
months or more. Not every single event on every chart (Figures 11.9 through
11.11) was singled out, so you may observe some technical events that are not
numbered. And don’t worry if you aren’t able to identify every event at first;

JWBK100-Ch11.qxd 2/21/08 11:42 AM Page 221 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File
Practice Sets 221
with continued practice you’ll be amazed at how quickly and thoroughly you’ll
be able to evaluate a chart.
One of the challenges inherent with visual analysis is that there will be a
certain amount of subjectivity. Traders may have different interpretations of the
same chart. For instance, one trader may feel that a bullish hammer with a
lower shadow of less than two times the length of the body still generates a valid
signal, while another trader may argue that the shadow should be longer. When
determining the validity of a reversal pattern, don’t forget to consider the con-
text in which it formed. Keep in mind these two questions:
1. What price action precededthe event?
2. Are there Western technical occurrences present on the chart that may
have an impact on the direction of price?
Example
A nonideal candlestick reversal pattern may form within a larger
Western pattern; when a strong ceiling or floor is tested; or after price
has become overextended. There’s a good chance in these instances that
the pattern will follow through in spite of falling short of meeting the
criteria of an ideal pattern.

JWBK100-Ch11.qxd 2/21/08 11:42 AM Page 222 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File
222 EAST MEETS WEST
CASE STUDY 1: SUNOCO INC. (SUN)
FIGURE 11.9
Source: TeleChart 2007®
1.______________________________________________________
2.______________________________________________________
3.______________________________________________________
4.______________________________________________________
5.______________________________________________________
6.______________________________________________________
7.______________________________________________________
8.______________________________________________________
9.Bonus: The peaks at 4, 7, and 9 form what Western
pattern?

JWBK100-Ch11.qxd 2/21/08 11:42 AM Page 223 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File
Practice Sets 223
CASE STUDY 2: METHANEX CORP. (MEOH)
FIGURE 11.10
Source: TeleChart 2007®
1.______________________________________________________
2.______________________________________________________
3.______________________________________________________
4.______________________________________________________
5.______________________________________________________
6.______________________________________________________
7.______________________________________________________
8.______________________________________________________
9.______________________________________________________
10.______________________________________________________
11.______________________________________________________

JWBK100-Ch11.qxd 2/21/08 11:42 AM Page 224 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File
224 EAST MEETS WEST
CASE STUDY 3: GREAT WOLF RESORTS (WOLF)
FIGURE 11.11
Source: TeleChart 2007®
1.______________________________________________________
2.______________________________________________________
3.______________________________________________________
4.______________________________________________________
5.______________________________________________________
6.______________________________________________________
7.______________________________________________________
8.______________________________________________________

JWBK100-Ch11.qxd 2/21/08 11:42 AM Page 225 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File
Practice Sets 225
Author’s Analysis—Case Study 1: Sunoco Inc. (SUN)
FIGURE 11.12
Source: TeleChart 2007®
The following commentary refers to the daily chart of Sunoco Inc. (SUN)
from May through July 2007 (Figure 11.12). The numbered items below corre-
spond to the numbered areas on the chart:
1. May 16–17:After a price decline a dragonfly doji formed at support at
the 50-period simple moving average (SMA) on May 16 (1). There was
additional support at that area provided by the swing low formed in
April (dotted line labeled Support1). The stochastic oscillator had
reached the oversold line as well offering further confirmation of a vi-
able setup for a long position. The 50-period SMA was tested again
during the session following the dragonfly doji. The long lower shad-
ows on those two days alerted that the bulls were stepping into long
positions at support. An entry at the close of the doji session, or the
following day, would have provided an adequate reward-to-risk ratio
for a short-term trade up to resistance at the April–May highs (dotted
line labeled Resistance), or an entry for a longer-term position.

JWBK100-Ch11.qxd 2/21/08 11:42 AM Page 226 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File
226 EAST MEETS WEST
2. May 17–29:Price rallied for a few days then formed a shooting star (2)
on May 22 near resistance at the April–May highs (dotted line labeled
Resistance). The shooting star’s real body was very small so some
traders would have called it a gravestone doji. The shooting star’s high
was tested the next session with a morning gap up leaving a spinning
top and signaling indecision among bulls and bears and further rein-
forcing the resistance area. Price pulled back some during the follow-
ing session and then stabilized over the next two sessions before
starting another leg up.
3. May 31:A hanging man formed, (3) but price had just started to move
up again, so its presence was not very significant. Its signal was
negated in the next session when price closed above the hanging man.
4. May 30–June 5: Price made a strong swing up, moving far away from
the average (20-period SMA). On June 5, price gapped up open (4)
but reversed immediately filling the opening gap and leaving a shaven
head on the daily candle. By the end of the session, price had closed
well into the prior day’s bullish real body. Price did not close at least
half way into the white body, so it was not an ideal dark cloud cover
pattern. However, since price had moved a good distance away from
the moving average, and the stochastic oscillator was in overbought
territory, the signal was just as strong as an ideal pattern.
5. June 5–8:Price pulled back to the 20-period SMA. The lower shadow
that formed on June 8 (5) was nearly long enough to qualify as a ham-
mer. The signal was confirmed the following day when price closed
higher.
6. June 12: A shooting star formed (6); however, price had just begun to
move up again, so this pattern was not very significant. It turned out
to be just a consolidation day and price closed higher in the following
day’s session.
7. June 8–19: Price made another swing up from June 8–18 once again
moving far away from the 20-period SMA. Notice that the real bodies
got smaller toward the end of that upswing (forming short candles, or
spinning tops) followed by a bearish hanging man (7) on June 19. The
stochastic confirmed with an overbought reading.
8. June 20–27: Price declined again ending with a gap down on June
27 (8). Price broke down through the June low (at 5) and the 50-pe-
riod SMA intraday on June 27; however, there was a dramatic turn-
around, and by the end of the session the stock recovered and closed
near the high. The result was a bullish hammer with a very long
lower shadow (that formed at support line 2). It was accompanied by
heavy volume.

JWBK100-Ch11.qxd 2/21/08 11:42 AM Page 227 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File
Practice Sets 227
9. Bonus:The peaks numbered 4, 7, and 9 form a larger bearish Western
chart pattern called a triple top. The middle peak (7) was slightly
higher than the peaks on either side, so some traders would interpret it
as a head-and-shoulders top. Either way, it warned of a potential trend
reversal. Remember that many double and triple top patterns turn out
to be periods of consolidation. In this case, though, the trend did end
up reversing direction (not shown).
Author’s Analysis—Case Study 2:
Methanex Corp. (MEOH)
The following commentary refers to the daily chart of Methanex Corp.
(MEOH) from April through July 2007 (Figure 11.13). The numbered items
below correspond to the numbered areas on the chart:
1. April 16:After consolidating for a few weeks from late March through
mid-April, price broke out on heavy volume on April 16 leaving a very
long bullish candle with a long upper shadow (1).
FIGURE 11.13
Source: TeleChart 2007®

JWBK100-Ch11.qxd 2/21/08 11:42 AM Page 228 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File
228 EAST MEETS WEST
2. April 17–19: Price pulled back for the next three sessions and tested
support at the top of the March–April consolidation area and the
20-period SMA (labeled S/R Line 1). Volume declined to below aver-
age as price pulled back.
3. April 20–23: Price rallied (3) for two days and found resistance at the
top of the long upper shadow that formed on April 16 (labeled S/R
Line 2).
4. April 24–26:Price turned back down and declined sharply intraday on
April 26 (4) back to support (S/R Line 1) but closed well off its low.
Shorts were covered and buyers stepped into long positions, as evi-
denced by the long lower shadow.
5. April 27–May 7:Price rallied strongly and was able to break above the
prior peaks (at S/R Line 2). A long bullish candle with a shaven head
and bottom formed on May 3. In the following session, a small black
real body formed within the prior session’s long white real body, creat-
ing a bearish harami (5). The next session was a shooting star, another
bearish sign
6. May 8: The following day, price declined back to the peaks that
formed in April (S/R Line 2). As they often do, support and resis-
tance reversed roles. Buyers stepped in at support (6) and pushed
price back up to close well off the low as the long lower shadow
indicates.
7. May 9–23: Price consolidated for a few days and then rallied again,
surpassing the prior peak (at 5). On May 23, price gapped up open
and reversed immediately, as evidenced by the shaven top (7). The
session closed with the bearish candle penetrating deeply into the
prior bullish real body, creating a dark cloud cover pattern. Had it
declined a little farther it would have engulfed the entire body of the
prior candle. Note that the stochastic oscillator was in overbought
territory.
8. May 23–30:Price declined for a few days and gapped down open on
May 30 (8). By the close of that session, price had penetrated deeply
into the prior black candle’s long real body, creating a bullish pierc-
ing pattern. There was not a significant downtrend to reverse; the de-
cline from the May high was only a short-term decline. Nonetheless,
price stabilized for a few days after the appearance of the piercing
candle.
9. May 31–June 13: Price made very little headway for a few days and
then declined again from June 6 through 12. On June 12, price
tested support at the April high (S/R Line 2). The next day price

JWBK100-Ch11.qxd 2/21/08 11:42 AM Page 229 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File
Practice Sets 229
gapped down open (9), reversed immediately, and closed the day as a
bullish engulfing pattern. The shaven head and bottom on the en-
gulfing day show the clear leadership of the bulls during the session.
The low of June 12 and the low of the engulfing bar (9) on June 13
were exactly the same. When the lows of two or more consecutive
candles match, the Japanese call it a tweezer bottom. Two or more
consecutive matching highs create a tweezer top.The tweezer forma-
tion alone is not a significant reversal pattern; however, when it oc-
curs in combination with another reversal pattern, in this case the
bullish engulfing pattern, it strengthens the signal.
10. June 13–July 18:Price swung back and forth in a trading range during
June and July. A shooting star (10) formed on July 16 as the June high
was tested (resistance Line 3). Long upper shadows during the follow-
ing two sessions, on July 17–18, showed the inability of the bulls to
push price above the June high.
11. July 19–25: Price declined again. A long bearish candle formed on
July 24, closing near support at the bottom of the trading range (S/R
Line 2). Price gapped down open the following day (11) and closed
deeply into the prior candle’s long black real body, creating a bullish
piercing pattern.
Author’s Analysis—Case Study 3:
Great Wolf (WOLF)
The following commentary refers to the daily chart of Great Wolf Resorts
(WOLF) from May through July 2007 (Figure 11.14). The numbered items be-
low correspond to the numbered areas on the chart:
1. April 25–May 1: After consolidating for several days in April, price
rolled over declining below the 200-period SMA. The decline ended
on May 1 with a bullish hammer (1). The stochastic oscillator was in
oversold territory and the very high volume that accompanied the
hammer increased the likelihood of a reversal.
2. May 2–11: Price rallied back above the 200-period SMA. A bearish
harami (2) formed on May 9–10 at the ceiling of the consolidation
area from April (S/R Line 1). The following day a hanging man
formed, further defining the resistance area.
3. May 14–18: Price declined for a few days, ending with a spinning
top on May 17 followed by a doji (3) on May 18. The fact that those
indecision candles formed at the 200-period SMA support provided a
good entry opportunity for a long position.

JWBK100-Ch11.qxd 2/21/08 11:42 AM Page 230 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File
230 EAST MEETS WEST
FIGURE 11.14
Source: TeleChart 2007®
4. May 21–June 4: Price rallied above resistance at the prior peak (S/R
Line 1). A long upper shadow on May 23 (4) formed a bearish shoot-
ing star indicating that the short-term swing up was running out of
steam. That was supported further during the following session with
the presence of another bearish shooting star and a bearish engulfing
pattern two days later on May 29. The peak of the engulfing pattern
was tested on June 1 and 4.
5. June 5–14: Price declined a bit back to support (at S/R Line 1) and
consolidated there (5) for a few days. Prior resistance had become new
support.
6. June 15–19:On June 15, price gapped up above the minor consolida-
tion (at 5) and closed above the prior peaks (at 4), continuing the up-
trend. On June 19, a nonideal hanging man formed (6). It was not
ideal because the upper shadow was not extremely short; nonetheless,
price had moved up from the average and was vulnerable to a pull-
back. The pullback began during the following session with the for-
mation of a bearish engulfing pattern.

JWBK100-Ch11.qxd 2/21/08 11:42 AM Page 231 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File
Practice Sets 231
7. June 20–29: Price declined back to the top of the small base that
formed from June 6 to 14 (S/R Line 2).
8. July 2–9: Price rallied again, surpassing the prior peak (at 6), and
moved a good distance away from the average. On July 9, a bearish en-
gulfing pattern formed (8), indicating that price may pull back again.
On each of the upswings during this trend, the stochastic oscillator moved
to the oversold line when price got somewhat overextended.
Moving Forward
Analyzing charts in the “rearview mirror” is helpful for learning. When it comes
to taking live trades, though, you must make your trading decisions at the right
edge of the chart without the benefit of hindsight. It is imperative that you start
right away practicing what you have learned in this book with the aid of real-
time charts. The repetitive process of observing price action as it unfolds, and
analyzing how price moves after the formation of a pattern or other technical
event, is a critical part of the learning process.
The value of the candlestick lines and signals is the message they provide
about the psychology of market participants. Ironically, you’ll learn a lot about
your own psychology when you start taking actual trades with your hard-earned
money on the line.

JWBK100-Ch11.qxd 2/21/08 11:42 AM Page 232 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File

JWBK100-BM.qxd 2/21/08 4:53 PM Page 233 Wiley 2 Wiley 2:Users:wiley:Desktop:JWBK100-BM:
Conclusion
By carefully reviewing the content in this book, and studying the accom-
panying illustrations, you’ll develop a valuable foundation from which
to get started using candlestick charting. Read the book as many times
as needed in order to feel confident that you understand the concepts. A mis-
take made by many aspiring traders is that they read a book, usually only
once, and then move on to another book or seminar without taking the time
to reinforce the new information. I am not trying to discourage you from
learning as much as you can about this industry—quite the contrary. Even af-
ter years of study and practice, I am amazed at how there is always something
new to be learned. What I am discouraging is the practice of moving continu-
ously from one topic to another without first making sure that you have ab-
sorbed and can apply what you have learned. It is a mistake that I made myself
at times early in my trading career, which I later corrected. Whenever I study a
new topic now, I review the information multiple times and begin immedi-
ately to put it to work.
While studying new information, it may seem as if it is embedded solidly
in your mind. The real test comes, however, when you attempt to put that
knowledge to work with real-time charts and live trades. You may discover that
you don’t know the information as well as you thought; or you may find that you
miss certain technical events at first when analyzing charts. That will improve
with continued review and practice.
Knowledge by itself is not powerful; it is the application of knowledge
that is powerful. Completion of this book is only the first step, albeit a crucial
one. You will learn equally as much by applying the information. Only through
repeated practice will this knowledge become permanent and serve to increase
your charting proficiency and profitability.
When you are ready to add to your knowledge base, please visit my web
site at www.tinalogan.com. In addition to instruction on technical analysis
(charting), I offer training on a variety of topics including trade management,
trading strategies, and organizing and structuring your work. Your feedback
regarding this book is also welcome and appreciated. If you have any com-
ments or questions, you may e-mail me directly at tina@tinalogan.com.
Trading is not a fast path to riches. It takes time and patience to develop a
strong skill set that will result in consistent profits. But for those who commit
233

JWBK100-BM.qxd 2/21/08 4:53 PM Page 234 Wiley 2 Wiley 2:Users:wiley:Desktop:JWBK100-BM:
234 CONCLUSION
to learning and stay the course, it can be very rewarding both financially and in-
tellectually. I’ll leave you with a quote from a gentleman named Herbert Otto, a
wise trader whom I’ve learned a lot from: “It ain’t easy. If it were easy everyone
would be doing it and it could not pay well.”

JWBK100-BM.qxd 2/21/08 4:53 PM Page 235 Wiley 2 Wiley 2:Users:wiley:Desktop:JWBK100-BM:
A
Appendix
Brief summaries of the criteria of the primary bearish and bullish candle-
stick reversal patterns introduced in Chapter 3, along with illustrations,
are included in this section. The real bodies that are shown in gray indi-
cate that that the body may be either black or white. Review Chapter 3 for
more discussion and variations of these patterns.
Bearish Reversal Patterns
Hanging man:This bearish counterpart to the hammer forms
after a price advance. It has a small real body that forms at, or very
near, the upper end of the candlestick’s range. The small real body
may be either black or white. There should be no upper shadow or a
very small one. The long lower shadow is typically two or more
times the length of the real body. A hanging man may appear after a
short-term upward move, but it is more significant if it appears after a long or
sharp rally or at an all-time high.
Shooting star:This bearish counterpart to the inverted ham-
mer forms after a price advance. It has a small real body that forms
at, or very near, the lower end of the candlestick’s range. The small
real body may be either black or white. There should be no lower
shadow or a very small one. The long upper shadow is typically two
or more times the length of the real body. An ideal pattern will have
a real body that gaps up open away from the prior real body. It is acceptable,
though, for the real body of the shooting star to overlap the prior candle’s real
body.
Doji (northern): This bearish counterpart to the southern
doji forms after a price advance. The opening and closing prices are
the same, or very near the same, meaning it has no real body. The
length of its upper and lower shadows may vary. This doji’s signal is
even stronger if it follows one or more long bullish candles. The
235

JWBK100-BM.qxd 2/21/08 4:53 PM Page 236 Wiley 2 Wiley 2:Users:wiley:Desktop:JWBK100-BM:
236 APPENDIX A
northern doji is often a component of other bearish patterns, such as the
evening doji star and the bearish harami cross.
Dark cloud cover: This bearish counterpart to the
piercing pattern forms after a price advance. It is formed
from two candlestick lines of opposite color. The first can-
dle has a strong bullish real body. The second candle has a
black real body. Price gaps up open above the prior candle’s
high and closes deeply (ideally at least half-way) into the
prior candle’s white real body. The deeper the second can-
dle’s bearish real body penetrates the prior candle’s bullish
real body, the stronger the signal.
Bearish engulfing: This bearish counterpart to the
bullish engulfing pattern forms after a price advance. It is
formed from two candlestick lines of opposite color. The
first candle has a white real body. The second candle has a
longer black real body that completely surrounds the
prior candle’s white real body. It is not necessary that the
second candle envelop the prior candle’s upper and lower
shadows, just the real body. This is a strong reversal pat-
tern that exemplifies an abrupt turnaround in investor
psychology.
Bearish harami: This bearish counterpart to the
bullish harami forms after a price advance. It is formed
from two candlestick lines. The first candle’s long white
real body is followed by a noticeably smaller real body,
either black or white, that resides within the prior can-
dle’s longer body. The appearance of a harami is an indi-
cation that the market may be losing momentum and
should signal caution. If the second candle is a doji, the
pattern is called a bearish harami crossand sends a stronger
signal.
Evening star: This bearish counterpart to the
morning star forms after a price advance. It is com-
prised of three candlestick lines. The first candle has a
long white real body. The second candle gaps up open
and forms a small real body, either black or white, or
a doji, creating the star portion of the pattern. The
third candle has a black real body that intrudes
deeply into the first candle’s long bullish real body.
The deeper the intrusion, the more likely a reversal
will follow, especially if the third candle is accompa-
nied by heavy volume.

JWBK100-BM.qxd 2/21/08 4:53 PM Page 237 Wiley 2 Wiley 2:Users:wiley:Desktop:JWBK100-BM:
Appendix A 237
Bullish Reversal Patterns
Hammer:This bullish counterpart to the hanging man forms
after a price decline. It has a small real body that forms at, or very
near, the upper end of the candlestick’s range. The small real body
may be either black or white. There should be no upper shadow or a
very small one. The long lower shadow is typically two or more
times the length of the real body. The hammer is a strong reversal
signal. It is meaningful whether it forms after a short-term downside
move or after a more significant decline.
Inverted hammer: This bullish counterpart to the shooting
star forms after a price decline. It has a small real body that forms at,
or very near, the lower end of the candlestick’s range. The small real
body may be either black or white. There should be no lower
shadow or a very small one. The long upper shadow is typically two
or more times the length of the real body.
Doji (southern):This bullish counterpart to the northern doji
forms after a price decline. The opening and closing prices are the
same, or very near the same, meaning it has no real body. The length
of its upper and lower shadows may vary. A doji that appears after a
downward move may result in a change in price direction; however,
doji tend to lose some of their potency in a declining market. The
southern doji is often a component of other bullish patterns, such as
the morning doji star and the bullish harami cross.
Piercing pattern: This bullish counterpart to the
dark cloud cover pattern forms after a price decline. It is
formed from two candlestick lines of opposite color. The
first candle has a strong black real body. The second candle
has a white real body. Price gaps down open below the prior
candle’s low and closes deeply (at least halfway) into the
prior candle’s black real body. The deeper the second can-
dle’s bullish real body penetrates the prior candle’s bearish
real body, the stronger the signal.
Bullish engulfing: This bullish counterpart to the
bearish engulfing pattern forms after a price decline. It is
formed from two candlestick lines of opposite color. The
first candle has a black real body. The second candle has a
longer white real body that completely surrounds the prior
candle’s black real body. It is not necessary that the second
candle envelop the prior candle’s upper and lower shadows,
just the real body. This is a strong reversal pattern that exemplifies an abrupt
turnaround in investor psychology.

JWBK100-BM.qxd 2/21/08 4:53 PM Page 238 Wiley 2 Wiley 2:Users:wiley:Desktop:JWBK100-BM:
238 APPENDIX A
Bullish harami:This bullish counterpart to the bear-
ish harami forms after a price decline. It is formed from two
candlestick lines. The first candle’s long black real body is
followed by a noticeably smaller real body, either black or
white, that resides within the prior candle’s longer body.
The appearance of a harami is an indication that the market
may be losing momentum and should signal caution. If the
second candle is a doji, the pattern is called a bullish harami
crossand sends a stronger signal.
Morning star: This bullish counterpart to the
evening star forms after a price decline. It is comprised of
three candlestick lines. The first candle has a long black
real body. The second candle gaps down open and forms
a small real body, either black or white, or a doji, creat-
ing the star portion of the pattern. The third candle has a
white real body that intrudes deeply into the first can-
dle’s long bearish real body. The deeper the intrusion, the
more likely a reversal will follow, especially if the third
candle is accompanied by heavy volume.

JWBK100-BM.qxd 2/21/08 4:53 PM Page 239 Wiley 2 Wiley 2:Users:wiley:Desktop:JWBK100-BM:
B
Appendix
S&P 500 LARGE-CAP
INDEX COMPONENTS
(AS OF OCTOBER 2007)
A AFL APOL BBY
AA AGN ASD BC
AAPL AIG ASH BCR
ABC AIV ASN BDK
ABI AIZ AT BDX
ABK AKAM ATI BEN
ABT ALL AV BF.B
ACAS ALTR AVB BHI
ACE AMAT AVP BIG
ACS AMD AVY BIIB
ADBE AMGN AW BJS
ADI AMP AXP BK
ADM AMZN AYE BLL
ADP AN AZO BMC
ADSK ANF BA BMS
AEE AOC BAC BMY
AEP APA BAX BNI
AES APC BBBY BOL
AET APD BBT BRCM
239

JWBK100-BM.qxd 2/21/08 4:53 PM Page 240 Wiley 2 Wiley 2:Users:wiley:Desktop:JWBK100-BM:
240 APPENDIX B
BRL COST EFX GIS
BSC COV EIX GLW
BSX CPB EK GM
BTU CPWR EL GNW
BUD CSC EMC GOOG
BXP CSCO EMN GPC
C CSX EMR GPS
CA CTAS EOG GR
CAG CTL EP GS
CAH CTSH EQ GT
CAT CTX EQR GWW
CB CTXS ERTS HAL
CBE CVG ESRX HAR
CBG CVH ESV HAS
CBH CVS ETFC HBAN
CBS CVX ETN HCBK
CC CZN ETR HCR
CCE D EXC HD
CCL DD F HES
CCU DDR FCX HET
CEG DDS FDC HIG
CELG DE FDO HLT
CFC DELL FDX HNZ
CHK DF FE HOG
CHRW DFS FHN HON
CI DGX FII HOT
CIEN DHI FIS HPC
CINF DHR FISV HPQ
CIT DIS FITB HRB
CL DJ FLR HSP
CLX DOV FNM HST
CMA DOW FO HSY
CMCSA DRI FPL HUM
CME DTE FRE IACI
CMI DTV FRX IBM
CMS DUK GAS IFF
CNP DVN GCI IGT
CNX DYN GD INTC
COF EBAY GE INTU
COH ECL GENZ IP
COL ED GGP IPG
COP EDS GILD IR

JWBK100-BM.qxd 2/21/08 4:53 PM Page 241 Wiley 2 Wiley 2:Users:wiley:Desktop:JWBK100-BM:
Appendix B 241
ITT M NOC PRU
ITW MAR NOV PSA
JAVA MAS NOVL PTV
JBL MAT NSC PX
JCI MBI NSM Q
JCP MCD NTAP QCOM
JDSU MCHP NTRS QLGC
JNJ MCK NUE R
JNPR MCO NVDA RAI
JNS MDP NVLS RDC
JNY MDT NWL RF
JPM MER NWS.A RHI
JWN MET NYT RIG
K MHP ODP RL
KBH MHS OMC ROH
KEY MI OMX ROK
KFT MIL ORCL RRD
KG MKC OXY RSH
KIM MMC PAYX RTN
KLAC MMM PBG RX
KMB MNST PBI S
KO MO PCAR SAF
KR MOLX PCG SBUX
KSS MON PCL SCHW
LEG MOT PCP SE
LEH MRK PDCO SEE
LEN MRO PEG SGP
LH MS PEP SHLD
LIZ MSFT PFE SHW
LLL MTB PFG SIAL
LLTC MTG PG SII
LLY MU PGN SLB
LM MUR PGR SLE
LMT MWV PH SLM
LNC MXIM PHM SLR
LOW MYL PKI SNA
LSI NBR PLD SNDK
LTD NCC PLL SNV
LTR NE PNC SO
LUK NEM PNW SOV
LUV NI PPG SPG
LXK NKE PPL SPLS

JWBK100-BM.qxd 2/21/08 4:53 PM Page 242 Wiley 2 Wiley 2:Users:wiley:Desktop:JWBK100-BM:
242 APPENDIX B
SRE TEX UPS WLP
SSP TGT USB WM
STI THC UST WMB
STJ TIF UTX WMI
STR TIN VAR WMT
STT TJX VFC WPI
STZ TLAB VIA.B WU
SUN TMK VLO WWY
SVU TMO VMC WY
SWK TRB VNO WYE
SWY TROW VRSN WYN
SYK TRV VZ X
SYMC TSN WAG XEL
SYY TWX WAT XL
T TXN WB XLNX
TAP TXT WEN XOM
TDC TXU WFC XRX
TE TYC WFMI XTO
TEG UIS WFR YHOO
TEK UNH WFT YUM
TEL UNM WHR ZION
TER UNP WIN ZMH

JWBK100-BM.qxd 2/21/08 4:53 PM Page 243 Wiley 2 Wiley 2:Users:wiley:Desktop:JWBK100-BM:
Glossary
After hours trading Trading that occurs after the close of the normal daily trading
session.
Area gap A gap that occurs within a period of consolidation. An area gap may also be
called a common gapor pattern gap.
Average An average, or mean, is determined by summing a set of values and dividing
the result by the total number of values in the set.
Blow-off top A sharp upward thrust in an uptrend is followed by aggressive selling.
The move is accompanied by heavy volume and often results in a change in the direc-
tion of the trend.
Bollinger Bands Developed by John Bollinger, these bands are plotted at standard
deviation levels above and below a moving average of price.
Breakaway gap A gap that forms when price breaks out above resistance or below
support. Breakaway gaps are typically accompanied by heavy volume.
Breakdown Price closes below an identifiable support area.
Breakout Price closes above an identifiable resistance area.
Capitulation A phenomenon in which investors “give up” and are willing to sell a
declining stock at almost any price in order to exit their long positions. True capitula-
tion involves very high volume and a sharp decline as panic selling occurs. Capitulation
is often followed by a change in the direction of the trend.
Close The final price at which a security trades during a trading session.
Consolidation A condition in which price moves sideways for a period of time. See
also Rectangleand Triangle.
Continuation gap A gap that forms while price is trending up or down. A continua-
tion gap may also be called a runaway gapor a measuring gap.
Cover (buy-to-cover) An order placed with a broker to exit a short position.
Divergence A scenario in which the price peaks of an asset moves in the opposite di-
rection of an indicator’s peaks.
Double bottom A common bullish reversal pattern that occurs when two promi-
nent, parallel (or nearly parallel) bottoms form in a downtrend. The pattern resembles
the letter “W.” It is a valid reversal pattern when it is confirmed by a close above the
middle of the “W.”
243

JWBK100-BM.qxd 2/21/08 4:53 PM Page 244 Wiley 2 Wiley 2:Users:wiley:Desktop:JWBK100-BM:
244 GLOSSARY
Double top A common bearish reversal pattern that occurs when two prominent,
parallel (or nearly parallel) peaks form in an uptrend. The pattern resembles the letter
“M.” It is a valid reversal pattern when it is confirmed by a close below the middle of
the “M.”
Exchange-traded fund (ETF) A security that tracks an index, a commodity, or a spe-
cific group of stocks, for example, semiconductors. An ETF represents a basket of
stocks, like an index fund does, but it is traded like a stock.
Exhaustion gap A gap that forms at the end of a trend. Exhaustion gaps are typically
accompanied by heavy volume.
Exponential moving average (EMA) The most recent prices in the average are
weighted more heavily than the older prices.
False breakout Price closes above an identifiable resistance area, or below an identifi-
able support area, but does not have enough momentum to continue the move. Price
reverses direction invalidating the breakout.
Fibonacci A sequence of numbers discovered by Leonardo Fibonacci, a thirteenth-
century mathematician.
Gap Empty space on a chart where no trading has occurred.
Head-and-shoulders top A variation of a triple top pattern in which the center peak
is noticeably higher than the two peaks on either side. It is a valid reversal pattern when
price closes below the neckline. The neckline is a support line that connects the swing
lows on both sides of the head.
High The highest price reached by a security during a trading session.
Inside bar A price bar that forms within the range of the bar that precedes it.
Island reversal An exhaustion gap is followed soon after by another gap in the oppo-
site direction.
Long (long position) The purchase of a stock or other trading instrument with the
expectation that price will rise.
Low The lowest price reached by a security during a trading session.
Margin account A brokerage account that permits an investor to buy or sell securities
on credit and to borrow against securities held in the account.
Market order An order for immediate execution at the best price available when the
order reaches the market.
Mean reversion A statistical concept that suggests that a value eventually moves back
toward the mean, or average. For price, the mean can be a historical average of the price.
Morning gap A gap that occurs at the open of a daily trading session and is filled be-
fore the close of the session.
Moving average A trend-following indicator that smoothes out price action by aver-
aging price over a designated period of time.

JWBK100-BM.qxd 2/21/08 4:53 PM Page 245 Wiley 2 Wiley 2:Users:wiley:Desktop:JWBK100-BM:
Glossary 245
Negative divergence When price continues to form higher peaks in an uptrend, while
the peaks in an indicator begin to decline, it indicates the uptrend may be weakening.
Open The price at the start of a trading session.
Opening gap See Morning gap.
Oscillator A technical indicator that signifies when a stock or market is in an over-
bought or oversold condition.
Overbought A condition in which a stock or market has risen too far too quickly and
is likely to suffer at least a short-term decline or period of consolidation.
Outside bar The price bar’s range completely encompasses the range of the bar that
precedes it.
Oversold A condition in which a stock or market has fallen too far too quickly and is
likely to experience at least a short-term rally or period of consolidation.
Positive divergence When price is making lower bottoms in a downtrend, while the
indicator bottoms are rising, it indicates the downtrend may be weakening.
Premarket trading Trading that occurs prior to the open of the normal daily trading
session.
Price The perceived value of a security at a given time.
Price gap See Gap.
Price objective See Price target.
Price target A projected price level where, if it is reached, a trader intends to exit an
open position.
Probability The likelihood, but not a certainty, of something’s happening or being
true.
Rally A fairly sharp rise after a decline or a period of consolidation. Demand over-
whelms supply resulting in a rise in value.
Range A price bar’s range is the difference between the highest and lowest prices
reached during a given trading period, for example, a daily session.
Rectangle A pattern that forms on a chart when price moves sideways swinging back
and forth in a bounded range. The top of the range becomes resistance and the bottom
of the range becomes support. A rectangle represents a pause within a trend and is usu-
ally resolved with a breakout in the direction of the trend; however, at times it will pre-
cede a trend reversal.
Resistance An area above the current price where supply should be sufficient to halt a
price advance.
Reward-to-risk ratio A ratio used by traders to determine the potential reward
(profit) compared to the potential risk (loss) if a position is taken in a stock or other
trading instrument. The ratio is calculated by dividing the potential reward by the po-
tential risk.

JWBK100-BM.qxd 2/21/08 4:53 PM Page 246 Wiley 2 Wiley 2:Users:wiley:Desktop:JWBK100-BM:
246 GLOSSARY
Selling climax A sharp sell-off in a downtrend is followed by aggressive buying. The
move is accompanied by heavy volume and often results in a change in the direction of
the trend.
Sell-off Rapid selling of a stock or other trading instrument. Supply overwhelms de-
mand resulting in a decline in value.
Setup An identifiable price formation that presents a potentially profitable trading
opportunity.
Short (short position) The sale of a stock or other trading instrument with the ex-
pectation that price will decline.
Simple moving average (SMA) Equal weight is assigned to each price that is in-
cluded in the average.
Slippage The difference between the price at the time a trader places an order and the
price at which the order is actually filled.
Stochastic oscillator A popular momentum indicator developed by George Lane. It
is based on the premise that when price is trending up, the closing prices will tend to be
near the high of the price range. In a downtrend, the closing prices will be nearer the
low of the price range.
Stock index An indicator used to track the composite value for a particular group of
stocks. For example, the S&P 500 is a very well-known large-cap index, that is com-
monly used as a benchmark for the stock market.
Stop-loss order An order placed with a broker to exit an open position if a stock
reaches a certain price. The order is intended to limit the loss an investor takes if the
stock moves against him. Stop loss orders become market orders when triggered.
Strategy A set of rules and conditions that determine such factors as what generates a
signal and how to enter, manage and exit the trade.
Support An area beneath the current price where demand should be sufficient to halt
a price decline.
Tail A candlestick line with a long upper or lower shadow.
Three Buddha top See Head-and-shoulders top.
Three mountain top See Triple top.
Three river bottom See Triple bottom.
Trend The direction of a price move. A trend may move up or down and is often
classified by its duration as either short, intermediate, or long term.
Trend line A straight line drawn on a chart to determine the direction and slope of
the current trend, or to identify the boundaries of a consolidation area.
Triangle A chart pattern that forms when price moves sideways. The swings across
the consolidation area tighten as price moves toward the apex of the triangle. There are
three types of triangles: ascending, descending, and symmetrical.

JWBK100-BM.qxd 2/21/08 4:53 PM Page 247 Wiley 2 Wiley 2:Users:wiley:Desktop:JWBK100-BM:
Glossary 247
Triple top A bearish reversal pattern that occurs when three prominent, parallel (or
nearly parallel) peaks form in an uptrend. It is a valid reversal pattern when price closes
below the lowest point between the three peaks.
True gap See Gap.
Volatility The tendency for price to fluctuate.
Volume The number of shares or contracts that are traded during a specified period
of time.

JWBK100-BM.qxd 2/21/08 4:53 PM Page 248 Wiley 2 Wiley 2:Users:wiley:Desktop:JWBK100-BM:

JWBK100-BM.qxd 2/21/08 4:53 PM Page 249 Wiley 2 Wiley 2:Users:wiley:Desktop:JWBK100-BM:
Bibliography
Bigalow, Stephen W. Profitable Candlestick Trading. New York: John Wiley & Sons,
2002; High Profit Candlestick Patterns, Houston, TX: Profit Publishing, LLC,
2005.
Bollinger, John. Bollinger on Bollinger Bands. New York: McGraw-Hill, 2002.
Bulkowski, Thomas N. Getting Started in Chart Patterns. Hoboken, NJ: John Wiley
& Sons, 2006.
Lane, George C. Using Stochastics, Cycles, and RSI. Des Plaines, IL: Investment Educa-
tors, 1986.
Morris, Gregory L. Candlestick Charting Explained, 3rd ed. New York: McGraw-Hill,
2006.
Murphy, John J. Technical Analysis of the Financial Markets. New York: New York Insti-
tute of Finance, 1999.
Nison, Steve. Japanese Candlestick Charting Techniques, 2nd ed. New York: New York
Institute of Finance, 2001; Beyond Candlesticks. New York: John Wiley & Sons,
1994.
Person, John L. Candlestick and Pivot Point Trading Triggers. Hoboken, NJ: John Wiley
& Sons, 2007.
249

JWBK100-BM.qxd 2/21/08 4:53 PM Page 250 Wiley 2 Wiley 2:Users:wiley:Desktop:JWBK100-BM:

JWBK100-BM.qxd 2/21/08 4:53 PM Page 251 Wiley 2 Wiley 2:Users:wiley:Desktop:JWBK100-BM:
About the Author
Tina Logan is the president of Tina Logan, Inc. (www.tinalogan.com).
She has over 15 years of combined experience as a trainer in corporate
settings and as a tutor for traders. For the past several years she has pro-
vided stock market training through private tutoring, seminars, and web-based
sessions. Tina has mentored traders from across the United States and abroad.
Her course graduates range from beginners, who aspire to enter this tough
business, to more advanced traders who wish to improve their returns and fine-
tune their skills.
Tina began trading by timing mutual funds in her retirement account be-
fore moving on to trading stocks. She left the corporate workplace in early
2000 in order to pursue full-time trading and study of the financial markets.
Tina was a contributing author to Stephen Bigalow’s second book, High
Profit Candlestick Patterns(2005). She holds a bachelor of arts from the Univer-
sity of Nevada–Reno, where she majored in communications and minored in
business administration.
251

JWBK100-BM.qxd 2/21/08 4:53 PM Page 252 Wiley 2 Wiley 2:Users:wiley:Desktop:JWBK100-BM:

JWBK100-IND.qxd 2/21/08 9:07 AM Page 253 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File:JW
Index
Advanced Micro Devices (AMD), 147 Bear market, 133
Advent Software Inc. (ADVS), Bears, 9
101, 102 Berry Petroleum Co. (BRY), 177, 178
Amateur hour, 14 Beta, 110
AMB Property Corp. (AMB), 186 Biolase Technology Inc. (BLTI), 168
American Stock Exchange (AMEX), Biomarin Pharmaceuticals (BMRN),
201 59
Area gap, 153 Blow-off top, 49
Arithmetic scale, 111, 113 Body gap, 162
Autozone Inc. (AZO), 33 Bollinger, John, 103, 109
Average, 116–117 Bollinger Bands, 109
Average daily volume, 101–102 Bollinger on Bollinger Bands(Bollinger),
103
Bar, 8 Bollinger squeeze, 109
Bar chart, 5, 8 Bolt Technology Corp. (BTJ), 57–58
Bar graph, 102–103 Bottom, 118–119. See alsopeaks and
Basing action, 136 bottoms
Bearish (black) candle, 12 Box range, 136
Bearish engulfing pattern, 56–58, 60, Breakaway gap, 153, 154
236 Breakdown, 175
Bearish harami, 62–63, 236 Break of resistance, 176
Bearish harami cross, 62, 236 Break of support, 175
Bearish reversal patterns, quick Breakout, 176
reference, 235–236 Broad market environment, 83
bearish engulfing, 236 Bulkowski, Thomas, 107
bearish harami, 236 Bullish (white) candle, 12
dark cloud cover, 236 Bullish engulfing pattern, 58–59, 237
doji (northern), 235–236 Bullish harami, 63–64, 237
evening star, 236 Bullish harami cross, 63
hanging man, 235 Bullish reversal patterns, quick
shooting star, 235 reference, 237–238
Bearish shadows, 91, 92 bullish engulfing, 237
Bearish star, 18, 66, 67 bullish harami, 238
253

JWBK100-IND.qxd 2/21/08 9:07 AM Page 254 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File:JW
254 INDEX
doji (southern), 237 psychology of, 86–89
hammer, 237 trading opportunities and, 201–207
inverted hammer, 237 Candlesticks, 8
morning star, 238 Capitulation, 17
piercing pattern, 237 Catching air, 136
Bullish shadows, 91–92 Chart analysis practice sets, 220–231
Bullish star, 66–67 Chart patterns, 8
Bull market, 133 Checkpoint Systems Inc. (CKP),
correction, 133 158–159
Bulls, 9 Clarcor Inc. (CLC), 171
Closing Price, 14–15, 24
Cal Dive International Inc. (DVR), Coding the candlestick patterns,
137–140 202–203
Calgon Carbon Corp. (CCC), Coherent Inc. (COHR), 95
104–105 Cohu Inc. (COHU), 149
Canadian National Railway (CNI), Common gap, 153
156 Common reversal patterns, 28–30
Candles, 8 nonideal patterns and variations, 30
Candlestick charting pattern format, 29
evolution of, 3–5 Computerized screening, 201–202
introduction to, 3–9 limitations of, 206–207
limitations of, 6–7 ConocoPhillips (COP), 69, 70
strengths of, 5–6 Consolidation, 79–81, 125
time frames, 25–26 Continental Airlines (CAL),
Candlestick Charting Explained 107–108
(Morris), 28 Continuation gap, 153, 154
Candlestick lines, 27 Convergence of signals, 211
constructing, 11–26 Con-Way Inc. (CNW), 93–94
evolve throughout session, 22–25 Copart Inc. (CPRT), 69, 70
high-wave candles, 21–22 Corn Products International Inc.
long candles, 16–18 (CPO), 62–63
shaven candles, 18–19 Countertrend, 132
short candles, 18 Cover (buy-to-cover), 35
spinning tops, 19–22 Covering, 214
Candlestick reversal patterns, 27–77 Crane Co. (CR), 183–184
at support-resistance, 195–197
Candlestick reversal patterns, using, Daily bar, 24–25
199–216 Daily candlestick line, 24–25
providing warnings, 213 Daily chart, 8
recognizing candlestick patterns, Dark cloud cover, 48–52, 236
199–200 pattern description and criteria,
reinforcing other set-ups, 210–213 48–49

JWBK100-IND.qxd 2/21/08 9:07 AM Page 255 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File:JW
INDEX 255
Denbury Resources Ltd. (DNR), Enhanced candlestick signals, 147–149
169–170 eSignal, 200
Dip, 136 Estee Lauder Companies Inc. (EL),
Directional move, 19 184–185
Divergence, 106–107 Evening doji star, 68, 69
negative, 106 Evening star, 20, 68–72, 236
positive, 106 evening doji star, 68, 69
Doji, 13, 41–48 pattern description and criteria, 68
as component of other patterns, 43 Exchange-traded funds (ETFs), 215–216
dragonfly doji, 47–48 Exhaustion gap, 154, 155
gravestone, 28, 44–46 Exponential moving average (EMA),
long-legged, 17, 18, 44, 45 187–189
northern doji, 42, 43, 235–236
pattern description and criteria, Failed reversal patterns, 86
41–42 Falling window, 151, 152, 153
southern doji, 42, 43, 237 False breakout, 81
Dojima Rice Exchange, 4 Fibonacci, Leonardo, 130
Doji star, 66 Fibonacci retracement, 130, 131
bearish, 66, 67 Fluor Corp. (FLR), 212
bullish, 67 Format, pattern, 29
Double bottom, 35, 124, 140, 189, Foster Wheeler Ltd. (FWLT), 154
211 Freemont General Corp. (FMT),
Double top, 34, 159, 177–178 159–160
Dow Jones Industrial Average, 9, 83,
Gaps, 151–173
84, 133–135, 182, 189, 191,
defined, 151
200, 215
morning gap, 151, 152, 161–167
Downtrend, 121, 123–125
morning gap’s role in swing trading,
Dragonfly doji, 47–48
167–173
Dril-Quip Inc. (DRQ), 190
price (true) gaps, 151–161
Dryships (DRYS), 125–126
providing support or resistance,
DTS Inc. (DTSI), 148
183–185
General Motors Corp. (GM), 178–180
EasyLanguage®, 203
Getting Started in Chart Patterns
Easy Scan, 205
(Bulkowski), 107
Echelon Corp. (ELON), 141–142
Golinhas Aereas (GOL), 194–195
Electronic Communications
Google (GOOG), 204
Networks (ECNs), 173
Gravestone doji, 28, 44–46
Engulfing patterns, 55–60
Great Wolf Resorts (WOLF), 224,
bearish, 56–58, 60
223–231
bullish, 58–59
pattern description and criteria, Hammer, 13, 34–36, 237
55–56 Hanging man, 31–34, 235

JWBK100-IND.qxd 2/21/08 9:07 AM Page 256 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File:JW
256 INDEX
Harami, 20, 61–65 Lane, George, 145
bearish, 62–63 Las Vegas Sands (LVS), 74, 75
bullish, 63–64 Limited Brands Inc. (LTD), 40
pattern description and criteria, 61 Logarithmic scale, 110–111
Harami cross, 61 Long (long position), 32
bearish, 62 Long black candle, 17
bullish, 63 Longer-term volume analysis, 104,
Head-and-shoulders top, 94, 96 105–108
High-wave candle, 17, 21–22 Long-legged doji, 17, 18, 44, 45
Histogram, volume, 102–103 Long-term trend, 127–131
Hoku Scientific (HOKU), 111, 112 Long white candle, 16–17
Homma, Munehisa, 4
Honeywell International (HON), Major market average, 133
128–129 Major trend, 127
Horizontal channel, 81 Marchex Inc. (MCHX), 42, 43
Margin account, 214
Immersion Corp. (IMMR), 109 Marubozu, 18
Immucor Inc. (BLUD), 121, 122 Maximum stop level, 161
Imperial Oil Ltd. (IMO), 51 McClellan Summation Index, 113
Infosys Technologies (INFY), 44, 45 McDonald’s (MCD), 195–197
Inside bar, 65 McMorgan Exploration Co. (MMR),
Inside day, 65 71, 72
Intercontinental Exchange Inc. (ICE), 54 Mean reversion, defined, 136
Intermediate-term trend, 131 Measuring gap, 154
Intraday charts, 25–26 MetaStock, 92, 200, 203
Intraday data, 15 Methanex Corp. (MEOH), 227,
Inverted hammer, 36, 39–40, 237 227–229
pattern description and criteria, 36 MGP Ingredients Inc. (MGPI), 38
Investing, 9 Minor consolidation, 136
Investools Inc. (SWIM), 124–125 Minor trend, 131
Investor, 9 Momentum of the trend,
Island reversal, 156–157 144–149
defined, 144
Japanese candlestick charting, 3–4, 151 Morgan Stanley (MS), 85
Japanese Candlestick Charting Techniques Morning doji star, 72–73
(Nison), 4, 19, 44, 62 Morning gap, 151, 152, 161–167
Japanese candlestick line, 11 candlesticks and, 165–166
defined, 161
Knight Capital Group Inc. (NITE), exiting a trade in premarket, 173
73, 74 filled, 163
Knightsbridge Tankers (VLCCF), interpreting, 166–167
49–50 intraday view of, 164–165

JWBK100-IND.qxd 2/21/08 9:07 AM Page 257 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File:JW
INDEX 257
morning gaps and pullbacks, Otto, Herbert, 234
170–172 O2 Micro International Ltd. (OIIM),
pullbacks and, 170–172 127–128
role in swing trading, 167–173 Outside bar, 59
variations of, 163–164 Outside day, 59
Morning star, 20, 71–76, 238 Overbought conditions, 79
morning doji star, 72–73 stochastic oscillator and, 146, 147
pattern description and criteria, 72 tails and, 96
Morris, Gregory L., 28 Overextended stocks, 143
Moving average, 100, 116–118 Oversold conditions, 79
defined, 116 stochastic oscillator and, 146
exponential, 187–189 tails and, 96
providing support or resistance,
185–189 Pattern gap, 153
simple, 187–189 Pattern inside a pattern, 140
Moving Average Convergence Pattern recognition quiz, 217–220
Divergence (MACD), 144 Peabody Energy (BTU), 87, 88
Murphy, John, 144 Peak, 118–119. See alsopeaks and
Myriad Genetics Inc. (MYGN), bottoms
191–192 Peaks and bottoms
resistance and support at, 176–180
Narrow-range (NR) bar, 18 Pediatrix Medical Group Inc. (PDX),
Nasdaq Composite Index, 84, 133, 35–36
188–189, 200 Personal Criteria Formulas (PCFs), 202
Nasdaq 100 Index, 216 Piercing pattern, 52–55, 237
Negative divergence, 106 pattern description and criteria,
New York Stock Exchange (NYSE), 52–53
101, 201 Pier I Imports Inc. (PIR), 208–209
Nison, Steve, 4, 19, 44, 62, 63 Positive divergence, 106
Nonideal patterns and variations, 30 Practice sets, 217–231
Northern doji, 42, 43, 235–236 detailed chart analysis, 220–231
pattern recognition quiz, 217–220
Odd lot, 204 Premarket trading, 173
Omni Energy (OMNI), 193–194 Price, 8–9, 100
Opening gap, 161–173. See also gaps, 151–161
morning gap movement, 79–82
Opening price, 14–15, 24 objective, 207
Oscillator, 82, 100 relationships with volume, 105–106
defined, 144 swing, 131
stochastic, 145–147 volume filter and, 203–206
uses of, 144–145 Price gaps, 151–161
OSI Pharmaceuticals Inc. (OSIP), 80 filling the gap, 157

JWBK100-IND.qxd 2/21/08 9:07 AM Page 258 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File:JW
258 INDEX
interpreting, 158–161 stars, 66–76
support and resistance and, 157–158 trend reversal, 85–86
types of, 153–157 Reversion to the mean, 135–140
Primary trend, 127 Reward, defined, 207
Probability, 140–142 Reward-to-risk ratio, 71, 207–210
defined, 141 Reward versus risk, 207–210
ProShares ETFs, 215–216 Rising window, 151, 152, 153
ProShares UltraShort Oil & Gas ETF Risk, defined, 207
(DUG), 216 Riverbed Technologies Inc. (RVBD),
Psychology, behind reversal patterns, 106, 107
86–89 Rogers Corp. (ROG), 180–181
Pullbacks, 136, 141–143 Round numbers, 180–182
Runaway gap, 153
QCharts, 200 Russell 2000 Small-Cap Index, 189,
216
Rally, 31 Ryerson Inc. (RYI), 192–193
Range, of price bar, 11, 13
Real body, 12–14 S&P. SeeStandard & Poors (S&P)
Rectangle, 81, 82 indexes
Resistance Saint Jude Medical Inc. (STJ), 211
defined, 176 Scaling out, 172
tails and, 92–96 Schlumberger Ltd. (SLB), 164–165
see alsoSupport and resistance Secondary trend, 131
Retail Ventures Inc. (RVI), 123–124 Securities and Exchange Commission
Retracement, 129 (SEC), 214
Reversal patterns, 8, 27–77, 79–89, Security, 9
201–207 Selling climax, 53
common reversal patterns, 28–30 Selling short, 213–215
dark cloud cover and piercing Sell-off, 32
pattern, 48–55 Sell stop, 215
doji, 41–48 Session, 8
engulfing patterns, 55–60 Setup, 100
factors that strengthen reversal reversal patterns and, 210–213
signal, 82–85 Shadows, 12, 14, 17
failed, 86 Shaven candles, 18–19
harami, 61–65 Shaw Group Inc. (SGR), 122, 123,
multiple signals, 76–77 188
price movements and, 79–82 Ship Finance International Ltd. (SFL),
psychology, 86–89 64
searching for, 201–207 Shooting star, 36–39, 235
shooting star and inverted hammer, pattern description and criteria,
36–40 36–37

JWBK100-IND.qxd 2/21/08 9:07 AM Page 259 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File:JW
INDEX 259
Short (short position), 33 at peaks and bottoms, 176–183
Short candle, 18 candlesticks at support-resistance,
Shorting a stock, 213–215 195–197
Short selling, 213–215 failure of support and resistance
Short-term trend, 131–132 levels, 190–191
Short-term volume analysis, 104–105 flexibility of, 189
Sideways (no trend), 125–126, 137 gaps and, 183–185
Simple moving average (SMA), 127, moving averages and, 185–189
187–189 price gaps and, 157–158
Slippage, defined, 173 resistance defined, 176
Small candle, 18 reverse roles, 191–195
Southern doji, 42, 43, 237 round numbers, 180–182
Spinning top, 18, 19–22 setups and, 210–213
Standard & Poor’s (S&P) e-mini, 201 support defined, 175, 176
Standard & Poor’s (S&P) indexes trend lines, 182–183
400 Midcap, 215 Swing high, 119
500 Largecap, 83, 84, 110, 133, Swing low, 119
189, 200, 215 Swing traders, 132
Standard deviation, 110 Swing trading, 132, 209
Stars, 66–76
bearish, 66, 67 Tails, 91–96
bullish, 66–67 in overbought or oversold
evening, 68–72 conditions, 96
morning, 71–76 support and resistance and,
pattern description and criteria, 92–96
66–67 Talisman Energy Inc. (TLM), 53
shooting, 36–39 Tall candle, 18
Stochastic oscillator, 145–149 Target, 207
Stockcharts.com, 92 Technical analysis, 106–107
Stock index, 83 Technical Analysis of the Financial
Stocks, 8–9 Markets(Murphy), 144
overextended, 143 Technical indicators, 100
trading, 214 TeleChart®, 9, 92, 200, 202, 203,
Stop-loss order, 35 205–206
Strategy, 100 Test of resistance, 176
Sunoco Inc. (SUN), 222, 225–227 Test of support, 175
Support Three Buddha top, 94
defined, 175, 176 Three mountain top, 94
tails and, 92–96 Time frames, 25–26
see alsosupport and resistance intraday charts, 25–26
Support and resistance, 157–158, weekly charts, 26
175–197, 210–213 Trader, 9

JWBK100-IND.qxd 2/21/08 9:07 AM Page 260 epg WILEY:JOBS:Wiley_PT:Logan:JWBK100_QXD%:Printer File:JW
260 INDEX
TradeStation, 200, 203 Umbrella lines, 30–36
Trading, 9 hammer, 34–36
Trading instruments, 9 hanging man, 31–34
Trading opportunities provided by pattern description and criteria, 31
reversal patterns, 201–207 Under Armour Inc. (UA), 74
Trading period, 8 United Industrial Corp. (UIC), 172
Trading range, 81 Uptrend, 121, 122–123
Trading session, 8
TransOcean Inc. (RIG), 155 Varian Inc. (VARI), 181–182
Trend, defined, 115 Volatility, 85, 108–113, 209–210
Trend analysis, 115–149 defined, 108
enhanced candlestick signals, measures of, 110–113
147–149 Volume, 101–108, 155
momentum of the trend, 144–147 analyzing patterns and trends,
probability and reversion to the 103–108
mean, 135–144 average daily volume, 101
trend direction, 116–126 defined, 101
trend duration, 127–135 displaying on the chart,
Trend direction, 116–126 101–103
downtrend (bearish), 123–125 relationships with price,
moving averages, 116–118 105–106
peaks and bottoms, 118–119 volume bars, 102–103, 155
sideways (no trend), 125–126, 137 volume in shares, 101, 102
trend lines, 119–122 Vulcan Materials Co. (VMC), 46
uptrend (bullish), 122–123
Trend duration, 127–135 Waiting for confirmation, 15
intermediate-term trend, 131 Weekly charts, 26
long-term trend, 127–131 Western Digital Corp. (WDC),
major market averages and, 133 111, 112
multiple time frames, 133–135 Western inside day, 65
short-term trend, 131 Western outside day, 59–60
Trend line, 119–122 Western price bar, 11–12
connecting peaks and bottoms, Western technical analysis, 8, 99, 106
182–183 Wheeling-Pittsburg Corp. (WPSC), 47
defined, 120 Wide-range bar, 17
Trend reversal, 85–86 Wilder’s Relative Strength Index (RSI),
Triangle, defined, 129 144
Trinity Industries Inc. (TRN), 130, 132 Windows, 151, 157
Triple top, 94 falling, 151, 152
True gap, 151, 152, 161–163 rising, 151, 152



