

Harmonic Trading: Volume Two
Advanced Strategies for Profiting from the
Natural Order of the Financial Markets
Scott M. Carney

Vice President, Publisher: Tim Moore
Associate Publisher and Director of Marketing: Amy Neidlinger
Executive Editor: Jim Boyd
Editorial Assistant: Pamela Boland
Operations Manager: Gina Kanouse
Senior Marketing Manager: Julie Phifer
Publicity Manager: Laura Czaja
Assistant Marketing Manager: Megan Colvin
Cover Designer: Chuti Prasertsith
Managing Editor: Kristy Hart
Project Editor: Betsy Harris
Copy Editor: Geneil Breeze
Proofreader: Water Crest Publishing, Inc.
Senior Indexer: Cheryl Lenser
Senior Compositor: Gloria Schurick
Manufacturing Buyer: Dan Uhrig
©2010 by HarmonicTrader.com LLC
Published by Pearson Education, Inc.
Publishing as FT Press
Upper Saddle River, New Jersey 07458
This book is sold with the understanding that neither the author nor the publisher is engaged in rendering legal, accounting,
or other professional services or advice by publishing this book. Each individual situation is unique. Thus, if legal or
financial advice or other expert assistance is required in a specific situation, the services of a competent professional should
be sought to ensure that the situation has been evaluated carefully and appropriately. The author and the publisher disclaim
any liability, loss, or risk resulting directly or indirectly, from the use or application of any of the contents of this book.
FT Press offers excellent discounts on this book when ordered in quantity for bulk purchases or special sales. For more information,
please contact U.S. Corporate and Government Sales, 1-800-382-3419, corpsales@pearsontechgroup.com. For sales outside the
U.S., please contact International Sales at international@pearson.com.
Company and product names mentioned herein are the trademarks or registered trademarks of their respective owners.
All rights reserved. No part of this book may be reproduced, in any form or by any means, without permission in writing from the
publisher.
Printed in the United States of America
First Printing May 2010
ISBN-10: 0-13-705151-4
ISBN-13: 978-0-13-705151-9
Pearson Education LTD.
Pearson Education Australia PTY, Limited.
Pearson Education Singapore, Pte. Ltd.
Pearson Education North Asia, Ltd.
Pearson Education Canada, Ltd.
Pearson Educatión de Mexico, S.A. de C.V.
Pearson Education—Japan
Pearson Education Malaysia, Pte. Ltd.
Library of Congress Cataloging-in-Publication Data
Carney, Scott M., 1969-
Harmonic trading / Scott M. Carney.
v. cm.
Contents: v. 2. Profiting from the natural order of the financial —
ISBN-13: 978-0-13-7051519-2 (v. 2 : pbk. : alk. paper)
ISBN-10: 0-13-705151-4 (v. 2 : pbk.)
1. Investment analysis. 2. Investments. 3. Portfolio management. I. Title.
HG4529.C368 2010
332.63’2042—dc22
2009051044

This book is dedicated to Jacob Carney.
This book represents the endless possibility of the future.
Don’t ever forget that you are capable of anything in this life.
I love you, buddy, and I will always be there for you.

This page intentionally left blank

Contents
Introduction . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1
Chapter 1 Contemporary Market Case Studies from a
Harmonic Trading Perspective . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .11
Chapter 2 Harmonic Impulse Waves . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .55
Chapter 3 New Harmonic Patterns . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .73
Chapter 4 Harmonic Patterns Relative to the Trend . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .111
Chapter 5 BAMM Theory . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .141
Chapter 6 RSI BAMM . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .161
Conclusion . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .271
Bibliography . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .273
Index . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .275

Acknowledgments
I want to thank my family.They have been there for me through it all.I am truly grateful for their
love, support, and encouragement.
I would like to thank Tracy Knudsen of Lowry Report for her professional insights and
friendship.In a competitive industry such as ours, you have always gone out of your way to
make me feel accepted.This has meant a great deal to me.Thank you, Tracy.
I would like to thank Peter B.Mauthe of Rhoads Lucca Capital Management.I truly appreciate
your interest in new trading ideas and, more importantly, knowing me as a person.Your
encouragement has meant a great deal to me.Thanks, Peter.
I would like to thank Veronique Lashinski.It means a great deal that you would show an interest
in these new ideas and get to know me personally.Thanks, Veronique.
I would like to thank Jim Kane of KaneTrading.com.More than anything, our friendship is what
means the most to me.I miss our dinner meetings at La Indita but know that with one phone
call, we can always pick up right where we left off.Thanks, Jimmy.
I would like to thank Guy Cohen of OptionEasy.com for taking the time to show an interest in
these new ideas and generously helping to realize the publication of both books.
I would like to thank the special friends that I have in my life—you know who you are without
being named, but here you go anyway:Michael and Tania, Wolf, Jav and Missy, John and
Carla, Laure, Hans and Dania, Paul and Carmen, Christy, Gus and Maha, Troy and Lauren
(Magee Alums), Scott and Christie, Heather, Jon and Jen, Stephen (Quad Connection),
Brownie, Rich and Rosaria, Bob, Lisa and Molly, Tom and Danielle, David and Leyla, Bill and
Marla, Paul, John, Max and Kim, Larry and Gina, OPCs ’87.Although we might not see each
other frequently, you are important people in my life, and I think of you often.
A special thanks to Stephanie Kramer.I appreciate your effort with this endeavor and look
forward to your continued contribution to Harmonic Trading.
I would like to thank the members of the American Association of Professional Technical
Analysis (A.A.P.T.A.) who generously promote the field of Technical Analysis so others may
prosper.
Finally, I would like to thank all of those individuals whom I have had the pleasure of getting to
know as a result of the Harmonic Trading methodology.I am honored to have this approach be
embraced by so many people.Since we are all students of the market, I truly hope that this
material facilitates your technical studies.I believe that the Harmonic Trading methodology will
dramatically improve your trading results and ultimately benefit your life.It is my purist desire
that this material be received as a positive contribution to those in search of answers to the
financial markets.

About the Author
Scott M.Carney is President and Founder of HarmonicTrader.com, and the originator of the
Harmonic Trading approach.He personally defined this unprecedented methodology that
employs a unique system of price pattern recognition and Fibonacci measurement techniques
to define opportunities in the financial markets.Among his many discoveries, Scott has defined
most of the harmonic patterns, including the Bat, the ideal Gartley, and the Crab.He has been
recognized for other contributions to Technical Analysis, including the concept of the Potential
Reversal Zone (PRZ), the 0.886 retracement, and the 38.2% trailer.Carney has been a
columnist for StockCharts.com, TradingMarkets.com, and eSignal.com, and he has been
featured on CNN.He is a full member of the Market Technicians Association (www.mta.org)
and the American Association of Professional Technical Analysts (www.aapta.us).

This page intentionally left blank

Introduction
After years of research, Harmonic Trading has evolved into a distinct and comprehensive
methodology that effectively analyzes the financial markets.The basic tenets of pattern
recognition as quantified by harmonic ratios define a system that provides immensely pertinent
technical information and identifies trading opportunities unlike any other methodology.It is
important to consider the substantial advancement of Harmonic Trading since its inception.
The release of my first book, The Harmonic Trader, marked the beginning of the entire
methodology.The new measurement techniques presented in this book quantified price action
in a unique manner.These new ideas created the framework of an unprecedented Fibonacci
measurement and price pattern recognition system that consistently defined profitable trading
opportunities.Although it was not my intention to formulate such a system, these strategies
were the result of extensive research to discover the most effective relationships that were
encompassed by these measurement tools.Through it all, I precisely refined many general
concepts and publicly divulged many “secret”strategies that comprised the fundamentals of the
Harmonic Trading approach.
The unprecedented combinations of specific ratios that differentiated similar price structures
as exact patterns defined an effective trading methodology, yielding relevant technical
information in an unprecedented fashion.Although others years before me have utilized
Fibonacci ratios within the realm of Technical Analysis, the concept of exact ratio alignments
presented a new means to define M-type and W-type price structures.These precise patterns
offered greater accuracy in the often vague discipline of pattern recognition for many traders.
Although the rules that define harmonic patterns seem to be common knowledge today, it
wasn’t too long ago that these strategies were practically considered avant-garde within the
field of Technical Analysis.This new application of Fibonacci ratios created a system of rules
that defined price patterns in an unprecedented fashion.For example, the common definition
for the Gartley pattern—requiring a 0.618 retracement and a 0.786 retracement at the B and D
points, respectively—which was originally outlined in The Harmonic Trader, has become the
standard within the technical community.
These strategies have proven themselves effective through the years, but this success has
engendered many Harmonic Trading-related systems that have skewed the basic tenets of the
approach.These outfits have espoused the mystical charm of Fibonacci ratios to present more
1

2 Harmonic Trading: Volume Two
of a “secret code”to the financial markets than a proven system of measurement strategies
within the discipline of Technical Analysis.Although I will address the problem of misinformation
and unscrupulous “gurus”a little later in this Introduction, there are two critical concepts to be
mindful of while studying this material:
• Harmonic Trading is more than Fibonacci. Anyone somewhat familiar with this
methodology understands that Harmonic Trading is much more than general Fibonacci
analysis.The entire Harmonic Trading approach comprises a variety of tools that include
more than simple Fibonacci measurement techniques and integrates a complex system
of execution and management strategies.Moreover, the new ideas presented in this
book incorporate an even wider gamut of unprecedented trading tools.
• Harmonic Trading is still evolving.In my first book, I presented a number of technical
measurement strategies that quantified price patterns with respect to their alignment of
Fibonacci ratios.The Harmonic Traderwas unprecedented in that it was the first
material to emphasize the importance of exact alignments and to employ specific ratio
combinations that differentiated a variety of patterns.Although The Harmonic Trader
outlined the framework of this methodology, Harmonic Trading:Volume One
represented a substantial advancement to the basic approach.Those two books
represent more than 500 pages of some of the most comprehensive pattern strategies
within the field of Technical Analysis and dedicate a considerable portion of the material
to identification techniques, outlining the strict rules that validate structures as patterns.
This book builds upon that foundation and improves upon the entire methodology to
outline effective trading strategies from start to finish.
Since its release in 1999, many have tried to lay claim to the ideas that were first espoused
inThe Harmonic Trader.Despite other interpretations, Harmonic Trading:Volume One truly
distinguished this approach from the often misguided and misappropriated use of basic
Fibonacci strategies.Meanwhile, this book advances the basic tenets of Harmonic Trading
offering greater “standardization”of pattern structures and improved confirmation strategies
that optimize trading decisions.
As these strategies evolve, there will continue to be a need for more thorough statistical
validation to improve the application of these methods and to enhance the overall accuracy of
the approach.In fact, this is a driving principle behind the entire Harmonic Trading system—
always improve upon what works.Although this may challenge the old adage:“If it ain’t broke,
don’t fix it,”the effectiveness of this approach (and of any trading methodology) depends upon
continual improvement.I offer comprehensive case studies throughout this material.I will
continue to compile research to validate the effectiveness of the Harmonic Trading approach.
Furthermore, new concepts such as the RSI BAMM and the 5-0 pattern represent substantial
improvements upon the initial foundation of this methodology.
New Ideas in Harmonic Trading
The strategies outlined in this book are entirely new concepts that build upon the prior material
presented within the Harmonic Trading approach.Many new topics will be presented with
particular emphasis on the Harmonic Impulse Waves, patterns within established trends, and

Introduction 3
BAMM Theory.In particular, the entire RSI BAMM strategy will be outlined.I will present new
patterns such as the 5-0, the Reciprocal AB=CD, and the Alternate Bat.Although Volume Two
references many of the basic tenets of the Harmonic Trading approach, this material consists
of mostly new ideas and trading strategies.The new patterns and expanded measurement
techniques significantly advance the primary identification tools established within this
approach.For example, the 5-0, the Alternate Bat, and the Reciprocal AB=CD are important
new structures within the existing array of harmonic patterns.Furthermore, these new
structures also comprise the basic framework of more advanced techniques.Hence, Volume
Two represents a significant evolutionary step and an essential new direction that enhances the
existing methodology immensely.
The most significant concept presented in this book and the most profound advancement of
the entire Harmonic Trading methodology is outlined in the RSI BAMM methodology.This new
complex system incorporates a standard technical indicator—the Relative Strength Indicator
(RSI)—with advanced Harmonic Trading measurement techniques.The RSI BAMM employs
precise ratio measurements and exact structural pattern specification to identify critical
technical price levels.All of the material in Volume Two—especially the RSI BAMM—offers
unprecedented strategies that identify the areas where overall trend divergence and harmonic
pattern completions define the most critical technical levels.In addition, the new ideas
presented in this material advance the basic theory of price pattern recognition by requiring
other technical conditions to exist to validate potential opportunities with improved accuracy.
Specifically, the advancement of the RSI BAMM separates the minor reactive moves from the
more substantial trading opportunities and provides extensive technical information regarding
the future potential direction of the price action.Although this material will take some time to
digest, I believe these advanced concepts dramatically enhance the entire Harmonic Trading
system, furthering its efficacy in pinpointing the best trading opportunities.
Technical Entities Continued…
InHarmonic Trading:Volume One, I discussed the importance of specific pattern alignments as
defined “technical entities.”It is important to note that the prescribed set of harmonic ratios that
define these structural entities has been differentiated, analyzed, and refined to develop
pattern-specific strategies for each situation.Although I covered it extensively in Volume One,
it is important to remember that “The Great Gartley Controversy”emphasized the necessity
of pattern differentiation and underscored the essential argument that not all patterns (Gartleys)
are the same.New “technical entities” in the form of unprecedented harmonic price patterns
outlined in this book, such as the 5-0, the Alternate Bat, and the Reciprocal AB=CD, further
the basic identification strategies of M-type and W-type price structures.These new patterns
adhere to the primary principle of defining specific technical situations based upon their
respective ratio alignments.Clearly, the material presented in Volume Two furthers the
specification of the Harmonic Trading methodology by offering a new level of strategic analysis.
The improved measuring techniques enhance the precision and the overall accuracy of this
approach in its ability to define the most critical turning points in the financial markets.

4 Harmonic Trading: Volume Two
Harmonic Trading:Volume Onewas a major advancement of the principles of the primary
pattern identification theory.The addition of unprecedented measurement techniques such as
new harmonic ratios, new patterns, and other comprehensive strategies, expanded the existing
array of effective trading tools and substantially bolstered the overall Harmonic Trading
discipline.Volume Onepresented a step-by-step approach with effective strategies for the
entire trading process.From initial identification to trade execution to money management, a
comprehensive plan was presented with each aspect thoroughly considered.In this regard, I
have been pleased that this material provides a solid decision-making framework of probable
answers for all possible questions that might arise during the trading process.From pattern
identification to the eventual execution of a trade, all possible actions have been outlined to
facilitate decisions, especially when unexpected real-time considerations can affect the
outcome.
The material in The Harmonic Trader andHarmonic Trading:Volume One effectively defined
this system.However, through the years, I have continually strived to improve the Harmonic
Trading approach and build upon this foundation.Hence, I present Volume Two.It is important
to note that the material within this book takes Harmonic Trading into new territory.Most of the
ideas outlined in Harmonic Trading:Volume Two are unprecedented, and they have not been
released previously in any other material.Volume Two advances the comprehensive
methodology of pattern identification presented inVolume Oneto incorporate new technical
measures that refine and filter the best trading opportunities.Advanced techniques, such as
the RSI BAMM, represent my most sophisticated trading techniques to date.It is my desire to
distinguish Harmonic Trading as a serious discipline within the field of Technical Analysis.Such
distinction has become increasingly important to me in recent years, as certain individuals have
attempted to capitalize on the burgeoning popularity of Fibonacci-related trading strategies,
while tarnishing the inherent principles of Harmonic Trading.
Imitators and Agitators
I am compelled to discuss the importance of ethical and accurate reference information
regarding these techniques and for that matter, much of the educational material regarding
trading the financial markets available today.I have been disappointed with the misinformation
and blatant misuse of the concepts first espoused within the Harmonic Trading approach.I’m
willing to accept this risk in exchange for the advancement of trading knowledge and for the
positive contribution to help others in search of the answers to the financial markets.
When I first began discussing Harmonic Trading on various websites in the 1990s, I was
admittedly naive.I openly shared strategies that advanced the basic Fibonacci trading mantra
of that era.It was my desire to share with others in the hope that they would provide feedback
ultimately furthering this discipline.Although I received a fantastic response from an
overwhelming number of traders, I realized that other Fibonacci-related “educators”were
picking up on the ideas, as well.I welcomed their response and actively sought to “talk shop”
with these traders.Unfortunately, I quickly learned that most of these so-called educators were

Introduction 5
just teaching basic and somewhat vague Fibonacci strategies.These people promoted their
products by making absurd and controversial statements of phenomenal success.In fact, most
of these outfits were only in the business of selling products and not really trading.In some
instances, certain research of mine was presented as their own.I realized that I needed to
exercise greater discretion and to strive to establish Harmonic Trading as a distinct
methodology apart from basic Fibonacci analysis.
Harmonic Trading is a distinct approach to the financial markets within the field of Technical
Analysis.The main problem relates more to the misinformation or blatant manipulation of the
intrigue and mystery that anything related to Fibonacci ratios inherently possesses.With the
recent popularity of books such as The Da Vinci Code, the subject of mystical conspiracy-type
stories that possess a secret order based upon the “golden proportions”of divine numbers has
opened a Pandora’s box of P.T.Barnums in the investment industry.Their ability to flourish and
to attract the general public’s attention proves that the inherent curiosity regarding this subject
matter can be an easy sell.It seems apparent that harmonic-related trading strategies have
become an increasingly popular marketing slogan.Again, I must emphasize that the entire
“harmonic concept”of pattern recognition based upon exactFibonacci ratio alignments did not
exist until The Harmonic Traderwas released in the late 1990s.In addition, the entire subject of
Fibonacci was a minor niche within the field of Technical Analysis.Harmonic Trading techniques
have impacted the technical community and contributed to this recent popularity while others
have jumped on the coattails of this approach.
For me, the degree of misinformation spewed to the public with catch phrases such as
“market-harmonics, trading in harmony, harmonic secrets”have lumped a great deal of less-
than-credible information with the strategies that truly work.It is important for me to take a little
time to show some of the troublesome examples that have been offered to the public.I strongly
urge people to be cautious regarding outrageous claims of the effectiveness of any system that
will make “quick riches”in the financial market, whether it is Fibonacci ratios or fundamentals.
The problem with such claims, especially when the subject of Fibonacci is involved, is that
it is simply exploited for its marketing value.In this business, marketing is the key to selling
your financial products, as I have unfortunately realized.Unlike many of the financial product
vendors, I am not dependent on book sales to make my living.I do this because I am
passionate about trading the financial markets and the strategies that unlock its secrets.
I strongly recommend that you perform thorough due diligence before signing up for
seminars, purchasing software, or spending substantial money for educational products and
services that make outlandish claims.Believe me, Harmonic Trading possesses some of the
most effective trading strategies available, but success still depends upon diligent and
dedicated work to turn patterns into profits.
Market Gurus Again
These concerns lead into another discussion regarding my disdain for so-called market gurus.
Anyone who purports to be a market guru must be cautiously regarded.Simply stated, there

6 Harmonic Trading: Volume Two
areno market gurus.Let me repeat:There are no market gurus!In fact, many of these gurus
are just people who have failed to be successful traders and have resorted to selling products
to make their living.It’s such a shame.It is so easy to believe these people and their hype.My
question is if they were really making money trading the markets with their methodology, why
would they spend the majority of their time selling products? In addition, it’s amazing to me that
these guys have so much time to dedicate to the marketing of their financial products when the
market consumes so much time as a full-time trader.It can be difficult to know the real deal
from the jokers selling their products just to make money.In my experience, after thoroughly
investigating many of these professionals—either going to their seminars or reading their books
and talking with them personally—you quickly realize who’s really trading and who is not.It’s
unbelievable that many of these individuals get so much exposure in the media yet they rarely
trade and derive most of their income from selling products.If you want to find the most
pertinent material on successfully trading the markets, you must seek out the people who
have been or are in the business of trading.
Even more incredulous is the number of people who have come to me after spending
thousands—if not tens of thousands of dollars—trying to learn how to trade from self-
proclaimed gurus like these.Many of these people have been swindled out of their money while
not learning any meaningful trading strategies.I believe that this is one of the greatest pitfalls
as a beginner.Engulfed in a sea of (mis)information, it is easy to bounce from one system to
the next looking for the answers to the financial markets.I have been there—searching for the
answers to the market.Years ago, I struggled to find the best systems, spent thousands of
dollars on books and software, and lost even more money attempting to trade these fantastic
systems that held no real trading value.Sitting in front of my computer screen, I spent
countless hours researching the best techniques.I was willing to look at any approach that
proclaimed to have the answers to the market.Unfortunately, most of this research yielded
strategies that failed to be reliable techniques in real trading situations.
From a general perspective, I must emphasize that searching for the Holy Grail to the
financial markets is just not a realistic approach to achieve consistent success.What is realistic
is discovering the order within the chaos in the financial markets, defining that order and being
willing to take some risk in return for financial reward.I’ve dedicated a substantial portion of my
life to the intensive study of the financial markets in an attempt to discover the best techniques
that are consistently profitable.Through my years of research, I have put together a series of
books and a software program that is sufficient to help anyone learn the dynamics of harmonic
price action and provide a comprehensive method for effectively trading the financial markets.
Whether you are a hedge fund manager with a billion in assets, a retiree trying to maximize
your IRA, or a novice trader just beginning, I’m confident that these tools will help you decipher
price action better than any other system.In my opinion, the Harmonic Trading methodology
offers some of the most reliable and pertinent technical information to identify profitable
opportunities and interpret price action.

Introduction 7
Then Why Give It Away?
Why give it away? I could simply retain these techniques for my own research and trading.
However, I firmly believe that knowledge not shared is worthless.It does not matter that I have
taken the necessary legal precautions to protect my intellectual property.Although I am
bothered by blatant plagiarism, it is my greatest desire to encourage an open and frank
discussion of this material, while freely sharing this information with the public.The most
important reason why I’m releasing this book is that I truly want to set Harmonic Trading apart
from all of the other Fibonacci-related strategies that have sprouted up in recent years.I believe
that the advanced concepts within Volume Twodemonstrate that Harmonic Trading is one of
the most effective and reliable methods to understand the complex dynamics of the financial
markets.The material in this book advances the entire system to a new level of accuracy and
provides even more effective trading strategies to achieve consistent success.
It’s Still Up to You…
I can share these strategies, but the overall success is still dependent upon your dedication and
determination to work diligently to follow the markets, analyze price action, and adhere to this
methodology.You must be willing to do the work.Although it can be easier to relinquish control
to an advisor or professional money management outfit, the ultimate responsibility for success
in the financial markets is still up to each individual.The pursuit of market knowledge can be
daunting.But it is essential to refuse to allow anyone to deter you from the success that you
seek.
The ability to succeed in trading is 100% self-directed.You must find the opportunities,
determine which trades to execute, and remain focused on your goals, as no outside element
can distract you from your objective.Although this can seem overwhelming at first, Harmonic
Trading does possess a comprehensive, start-to-finish methodology to successfully guide you
throughout the decision-making process.Despite sharing my most advanced research, it is still
entirely up to you to dedicate yourself to this endeavor to realize success.
Although trading can be a solitary pursuit, it is important to remember that you know what’s
best for yourself—regardless of your level of experience.Many experts and their “immensely
successful systems”can be intimidating at first.It can be easy during the early stages of
learning any trading system to relinquish control of your own decision-making process to others
because they seemingly have better answers or appear to know more than you.Again, the truth
is that only you know what’s best for yourself, and you must make your own assessments
regarding any trading methodology.I encourage questions and welcome any comments and/or
criticism to extend an open debate regarding this material.Despite my own beliefs and
personal success, I truly encourage you to evaluate this material for yourself.

8 Harmonic Trading: Volume Two
The Benefits of Advanced Harmonic Trading
Techniques
I have always said that Harmonic Trading and the pattern identification techniques in particular
within this approach are merely a starting point.These techniques serve as a comprehensive
framework that accurately measures and analyzes price action.The ultimate objective of this
book attempts to outline specific technical situations within the course of trading that will yield a
high degree of reward while minimizing risk.Advanced Harmonic Trading techniques can offer
information regarding the potential state of price action unlike any other methodology.When
combined with other technical studies and analyzed within the predominant trend, Harmonic
Trading strategies can pinpoint the potential “hot spots”where reversals may complete or
important continuations of the prevailing direction may develop.
The combination of pattern identification techniques and the utilization of Fibonacci ratios to
quantify price action is the greatest asset within the Harmonic Trading approach.As this
methodology has become more refined, I’ve realized that there are many other technical
indicators that form repetitive patterns in the same manner as price action.In the past, I tended
to be exclusive in the application of other technical measurement tools with harmonic price
patterns.However, I began to notice over time how frequently many of these indicators were
acting as valid confirmation signals in conjunction with the basic pattern recognition techniques.
Although many of these integrative strategies are simple applications of standard indicators, the
combination of these existing measures with the Harmonic Trading approach yielded more
accurate technical information.
The advanced Harmonic Trading strategies offer immense confirmation signals, and they
have led to more precise executions within a pattern’s Potential Reversal Zone (PRZ).
Essentially, the integration of other measures has resulted in even more accurate projected
reversal points for trade executions and hence, more reliable technical information regarding
the state of potential price action.At first, the simple integration of many of these indicator
readings was generally beneficial.However, as I expanded the use of other technical indicators,
I noticed many similar harmonic traits that formed in the indicator readings as did in the actual
price action itself.Once I began to see these relationships, I thoroughly explored a variety of
indicators to find those that correlated best with the Harmonic Trading techniques and provided
the most accurate confirmation signals to validate patterns.
The Best of the Best
This book like the others has been years in the making, and it represents a collection of my
best ideas.I’m proud of this book because the techniques that I present in this material are
truly original within the field of Technical Analysis.While combining the basic approach of
several established technical methodologies, I believe the new ideas in this material integrate
the existing unprecedented strategies of Harmonic Trading to create one of the most
comprehensive and effective trading systems available today.

Introduction 9
It is important to note that I only release strategies that I have tested thoroughly in real
trading situations that have produced consistently successful results for me.In my opinion,
successful strategies must stand up in real market conditions that reflect the realities of trading
and not just shine in well-chosen examples at a weekend trading seminar.I understand that
many products and services, especially Fibonacci-related ones, make absurd claims of fortune
and success if you spend “only 15 minutes a day.”NO! I make no false promises of quick
riches.I offer effective trading tools that help those people who are looking for the answers to
the financial markets, as long as they are willing to study and apply themselves through diligent
work to achieve consistent success.
My goal in this book is to present a significant advancement of the Harmonic Trading
approach that integrates new applications of existing technical measures beyond their standard
interpretation.In fact, the extent of new ideas and concepts practically doubles the existing
amount of material on the subject.The advanced techniques outlined in this book incorporate
only the most pertinent technical measures that substantially increase the accuracy of
harmonic patterns to identify the critical turning points in the financial markets.In particular, the
RSI BAMM exemplifies the effectiveness of these advanced techniques to identify unique
technical situations where the completion of harmonic patterns has even greater importance
and serves to filter the more meaningful setups from those that possess less significance.
In closing, I want to thank you for taking time to read my material.I want you to know that
I’m using these techniques every day to make financial decisions for my clients and myself.I
have a responsibility to serve their best interests to the best of my ability.I extend this level of
dedication and commitment to all career endeavors.This book reflects such dedication and
commitment.I just want you to know that you are getting the real deal here and that I’m grateful
to share this information with you.Let’s get started!

This page intentionally left blank

Chapter 1
Contemporary Market Case
Studies from a Harmonic Trading
Perspective
Since the inception of my website, HarmonicTrader.com, I have released a variety of reports
that have assessed critical long-term turning points in the markets.Specifically, the Dow Jones
Industrial Average, the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (S&P 500), and the NASDAQ Composite
Index have experienced a wide variety of market extremes in the past two decades.Despite
such extreme volatile long-term price action, Harmonic Trading effectively and accurately
provided reliable analysis of the most critical turning points and outlined precise possibilities of
probable future action that these markets were facing.In fact, the challenging environment of
the past two decades has proven to be a comprehensive test for Harmonic Trading techniques.
For example, the Dow Jones Industrials and the S&P 500 have both experienced multi-year bull
and bear markets since 2000.This era compares on par with some of the most volatile market
environments in history.Notwithstanding, these markets pale in comparison to the incredulous
tech bubble in NASDAQ Composite Index at the turn of the century.This index rallied several
hundred percent at the end of the 1990s only to lose 80% of those gains in less than three
years.These long-term situations challenged the measurement strategies of this approach to
decipher the most critical levels of support and resistance and to determine the overall future
direction of the markets.The ability of the Harmonic Trading methodology to define the critical
long-term market turning points has tremendously validated this approach.For example, the
bear market of 2008-2009 possessed a substantial weekly 5-0 pattern that defined the clear
make-or-break support zone for the index.Although I no longer operated an advisory service, I
posted an initial report of the long-term possibilities outlining the situation earlier in 2008 before
the dramatic decline.Since the market environment has changed drastically from the 1990s, it
is important to review some historical developments that were a crucial element in the evolution
of this approach.
Harmonic Trading was conceived during a particularly bullish era for the markets.Stocks
were traded mostly, as currencies and commodities experienced far less public participation
than today.Despite the entrenched bullish trend of the 1990s, the market manifested evidence
of trouble soon after the decade ended.Although the “pre-9/11”market climate seems as if
it is ancient history, these events hold tremendous significance for today and the future.
The technical significance of the price action in these markets impacts long-term structural
considerations and serves as the established price limits for Harmonic Trading measurements
going forward.
11

12 Harmonic Trading: Volume Two
The following analysis of these major U.S.indices has two purposes.First, the review
of such historic action underscores the importance of these techniques to be analyzed in
long-term cases with the same considerations as intra-day situations.The primary difference is
that instead of minutes to react as is the case for intra-day opportunities, these markets
involved days and weeks of analysis to accurately assess their validity.Second, these markets
distinguished the Harmonic Trading approach more than any other situation.At each turn, the
reports posted on the website and in related Internet articles accurately outlined the reason for
the change in trend based upon distinct harmonic pattern completions and other technical
considerations.
The bear market of 2000 and subsequent low in 2003 impacted this approach
immensely.The importance of pattern failures during this time was one of the discoveries that
expanded the scope of Harmonic Trading.The price action of 2008 reinforced this principle
further and engendered an even more vigilant monitoring of the markets in general.Unlike the
decisive bullish trend of prior decades, the long-term structure of these indices has vast
implications for the future direction and influence on other markets, such as commodities and
currencies.The following case studies review these historic patterns and illustrate the clear
signals outlined by the Harmonic Trading approach that defined each situation.Starting with
actual market reports from my original advisory service from the early 2000s, this review
represents a live assessment of the action as it happened.Furthermore, my ability to predict
the bear decline of 2008 was directly influenced by the lessons learned from those early days.
The Bear Market of 2000—Same Patterns,
Different Day
The true challenge of these changing market environments required a thorough assessment of
weekly and monthly harmonic price levels to offer relevant information—let alone pinpoint exact
lows and highs of multiyear trends.It is important to remember that Harmonic Trading concepts
were relatively new in 2000.The strategies were yielding tremendous success in short-term
situations, but the question that loomed in my mind as I refined the approach was whether
weekly, monthly, and even yearly Harmonic Trading measurements would be as reliable.
The other dilemma that preceded the turn of the century was the predominant bullish bias of
the 1980s and 1990s.The incredible advancement of the Internet in particular opened financial
markets to a generation of new online traders.This bullish fervor was the backdrop for
unrealistic aspirations and distorted long-term realities.As the bull market of the late 1990s
waned, many were locked into a one-sided bias and were unable to adapt to the impending
changes.Although bullish harmonic patterns were accurately defining significant opportunities
in those early years, the powerful bear market of 2000 overwhelmed many substantial setups.
The failure of daily and weekly bullish patterns forced me to step back and take a hard look at
the flexibility of this methodology.It became apparent that I had to adjust the approach, employ
a more balanced system of pattern analysis, and interpret price action from a more neutral
perspective.Although bearish patterns were yielding success, there was a period of time—at
least for me—where the major bear market scenario was still not clear and required time to be

Chapter 1 Contemporary Market Case Studies from a Harmonic Trading Perspective 13
entirely confirmed.After 13 years, was a major correction at hand? But, an entire meltdown of
the preceding bull market still required a violation of many harmonic support levels before I
would consider an official bear position.I found myself locked into a bullish mode until enough
patterns failed that the information—like a brick being slammed over my head—was indicating
significantly more downside than a minor correction.The predominance of the strong uptrend of
the prior decades created an inherent bullish bias that favored trading these setups more than
bearish patterns.Although the bearish patterns were still effective in determining excellent
selling opportunities, the lasting bias of the prior bull market needed to be overcome.As more
bullish patterns failed, the technical evidence mounted to respect the severity of the price
action.Not to mention, the information provided by this analysis was accurately pinpointing that
the overall market direction had changed to a bearish bias.The trend was clearly reversing and
heading lower.
The Importance of Pattern Violations
The bear markets of 2000 and 2008 possessed critical long-term harmonic setups that clearly
defined the most relevant technical levels within their overall respective trends.Critical long-
term support levels and distinct harmonic patterns consistently marked important turning points
and clearly signified the extent of the trouble at hand in each case.The recognition of such
price action led to a greater understanding of the importance of these formations as significant
technical signals.Within the context of the primary bearish trend, especially in 2000, the
repeated pattern failures provided the evidence needed to effectively validate the state of the
market.Also, this helped me to focus mostly on bearish patterns for my trading and favor the
short side until the major market indices stabilized in both cases.
I must emphasize the importance of this adjustment as a critical advancement in my thinking
regarding the entire Harmonic Trading methodology.Instead of staying locked into a bullish
mentality, I was able to reassess the current environment of the financial markets at this time
and make the adjustments necessary to adapt to the changing environment.Regardless of
whether a particular setup was valid, the price action at the completion of many harmonic
patterns in the major U.S.indices provided accurate information regarding their future direction.
If a pattern was a valid opportunity, the price action typically reversed at the completion point.
However, price action that exceeded the completion point for a critical pattern normally resulted
in a further extension of the primary trend.In the case of both markets in 2000 and 2008, the
failure of long-term bullish patterns led to a substantial downside continuation.
“A Signpost for Future Price Action”
Another result of these bear markets was a reinforcement of the fact that a pattern is more a
signpost of potential future action and not an “end all, be all”signal for trading.I have discussed
this principle in each of my three books.In fact, in The Harmonic Trader, I discussed this
concept as a critical first step to enable an unbiased perspective and not get locked into one
side of the market or the other.Throughout early 2000, a problem quickly emerged when many

14 Harmonic Trading: Volume Two
of the people who initially embraced the Harmonic Trading concepts became disparaged as the
bear market progressed.In fact, I received e-mails from people who claimed that harmonic
price patterns no longer worked.The problem was not the failure of harmonic patterns, rather
their interpretation and analysis of the technical information provided by such failures was
flawed.Instead of getting locked in to this mentality, I realized that the overwhelming pattern
failures of the time were indicating a further substantial decline in the financial markets.
Furthermore, the bullish pattern violations were in fact frequently providing clear trading
opportunities, as each breakdown in price action below the projected harmonic support area
typically accelerated after failing the setup.In this manner, particular patterns did serve to
pinpoint the continuation areas of the major reversal at hand, time and time again.
At a minimum, the price levels determined by Harmonic Trading measurement techniques
were consistently identifying the key areas within the primary trend to examine for clues of
potential future price action.Distinct long-term Potential Reversal Zones (PRZ) were defining
the make-or-break support and resistance levels.Furthermore, the effectiveness of long-term
harmonic ratios to gauge price action was particularly impressive.Regardless of the type of
setup, the effectiveness of this methodology was consistently accurate in pinpointing the most
critical technical levels throughout these volatile times.
The Proving Grounds—A Comprehensive Test
From a longer-term perspective, the experience of these reports of the prior decade resulted
in a definitive substantiation of the Harmonic Trading techniques as an effective technical
approach to analyze price action.As I mentioned previously, the rules within the Harmonic
Trading methodology were relatively new at this time.My ability to navigate through the difficult
trading environment during that period was put to the test.In the end, I believe that my overall
advisory record and detailed reports prove that Harmonic Trading techniques passed the test
and substantiated the validity of this approach.I say this because these reports represent one
of the most accurate long-term case studies that have been compiled for this approach.
In each of these markets, I correctly determined the major market trend changes of the time
and identified the critical long-term price levels in each instance.The ability to accurately
quantify critical price levels was a direct result of applying the Harmonic Trading measurement
techniques.The various reports consistently identified the most important levels of support and
resistance, utilizing Fibonacci ratios exclusively to project long-term technical areas as critical
price targets.Furthermore, the price action at these projected harmonic levels frequently
provided early warning signs, as the primary trend remained strong—especially in both bear
markets—and indicated that the larger historic price targets were to be tested before a major
trend change could occur.
When analyzed within this context and in accordance to the basic rules of harmonic pattern
recognition, these reports were capable of anticipating the overall changes in the financial
markets and successfully pinpointing the precise levels where these changes would occur.
Although this analysis required immense consideration and attention to the daily market action,
the ability of these techniques to interpret the overall direction proved increasingly reliable

Chapter 1 Contemporary Market Case Studies from a Harmonic Trading Perspective 15
throughout those early years.In the time since, the advancement of the Harmonic Trading
methodology, in particular the new strategies outlined in this book, has improved the overall
effectiveness and serves to provide a more comprehensive perspective on the basic pattern
recognition approach.
Frankly, I was challenged by the market environment during those first few months
of reports.Beginning with the extreme multiyear rally of the 1990s and followed by a
near-liquidation of the entire market, the remarkable volatility created one of the most difficult
market environments of the past 100 years.From a harmonic pattern perspective, the bull
market of the late ’90s possessed many bearish patterns that were continually violated.The
strong price action overwhelmed many of these setups.Conversely, the bear market from
2000-2003 annihilated what seemed to be once-in-a-lifetime buying opportunities.I learned a
great deal during this time.In the long run, this was an important evolutionary process for the
entire Harmonic Trading methodology.The lessons learned during this time made me focus on
price action in the completion area of harmonic patterns more than the patterns themselves,
which led to a more accurate and unbiased analysis of the overall direction of the markets.
This opened my eyes and spawned a more flexible interpretation of harmonic price action.In
addition, the change in thinking led to a greater integration of applying these patterns within the
constraints of the overall trend, especially when related to other standard technical measures.
Although this advancement required many years to develop, the time and research invested
has yielded significantly improved the strategies and substantially enhanced the already potent
capabilities of the Harmonic Trading approach.
Market Positions
As a part of my advisory service for HarmonicTrader.com, I wrote market reports for the three
primary U.S.indices—the Dow Jones Industrial Average, the Standard & Poor’s 500, and the
NASDAQ Composite.The following synopsis of these reports represents an accurate research
study on the effectiveness of these techniques in real-time situations.Throughout this time
period, my reasons for particular market positions and specific price targets were clearly stated
and presented well in advance.From a general perspective, my advisory service official
positions for each of the three major U.S.indices were as follows:
• 1998–September 2000:Bullish
• September 2000–April 2003:Bearish
• April 2003–November 2003:Neutral
• November 2003:Bullish
I will explain the various pattern developments of the times and my reasons for the analysis
presented.The recommendations of the advisory service were exclusively based on Harmonic
Trading measurement techniques.It is important to be mindful of the progression of pattern
analysis and the associated price action, as various harmonic scenarios unfolded.The most
important point is that distinct harmonic measurement techniques provided consistently reliable
technical information throughout this entire time period.The end result was an extremely

16 Harmonic Trading: Volume Two
accurate collection of monthly reports that defined critical technical price levels and the major
changes in the overall market direction during a rather volatile long-term market environment.
Standard & Poor’s 500 Review
Of the three major U.S.indices, the Standard & Poor’s 500 was a leading index that frequently
formed distinct harmonic patterns and responded well to critical long-term Fibonacci levels of
support and resistance.In fact, the S&P 500 was my baseline index for the entire market.
In essence, the price action on the S&P 500 and the validity of the various harmonic setups
effectively indicated the probable future price action for the markets in general.For example,
it was common for the markets to form different harmonic patterns within each index
simultaneously.The S&P 500 was typically forming the most distinct patterns with price action
that provided clues of the impending direction before the other two indices.Therefore, a failure
in a pattern in the S&P 500 would typically translate into a failure of another pattern in one of
the other two indices.
Bearish Gartley Marks the Beginning of the Bear
In my S&P 500 analysis, I identified some significant harmonic developments that pointed to a
major reversal at hand.After the bull market of the 1990s ended with the decade, the index
quickly violated some critical technical levels that suggested a greater correction was in the
works.In fact, the index formed a Bearish Gartley on the weekly chart in August 2000 that
marked a significant failure of the prior all-time high.This pattern turned out to be the structure
that initiated the multiyear bear market.
The reversal from the Bearish Gartley was the first significant failure of a prior high within
the established bullish trend in nearly five years.The price action from 1995–2000 was among
the strongest bull markets in history.Although I maintained a bullish position from 1998 until
September 2000, this pattern was clearly signaling trouble for the S&P 500 on a long-term
basis.The reversal from its completion was one of the primary reasons for my bearish position.
Standard & Poor’s 500 (^SPX): Weekly Bearish Gartley
It all started with this weekly Bearish Gartley just above the 1500 area (see Figure 1.1).
Although the CD leg was a bit extended, the structure possessed a precise alignment of
harmonic ratios to validate the pattern.The interesting aspect of the price action was the
decisive downside continuation following the completion of the pattern.I outlined this setup as
early as June 2000, stating in the monthly report:

Chapter 1 Contemporary Market Case Studies from a Harmonic Trading Perspective 17
“The S&P 500 has held the lows set in the past two months.…
Despite this strength,there is a nice shorting opportunity at the
78.6% retracement from the high that would complete a Bearish
Gartley pattern.There are three harmonic numbers just above 1500
that define the potential reversal zone:
• AB=CD at 1505
• 1.27BC at 1515
• .786XA at 1510
I would focus closely on the 1510 area where the .786XA
completes.Although the index may exceed this area slightly,if the
bearish pattern is valid,the index should not rally too far above this
zone.”
(HarmonicTrader.com http://www.harmonictrader.com/members/
harmonic/markets/spx0600.htm)
Figure 1.1

18 Harmonic Trading: Volume Two
The decisive downside continuation following the completion of this pattern clearly indicated
the change in trend that was occurring.In fact, in my September 2000 market report three
months later, I outlined this breakdown:
“As we enter the historically ominous September-October period,it
is essential to consider such bearish possibilities.… The most
critical levels to examine in the next few weeks are the short-term
.618 and .786 retracements from the July low to the August high..I
would become extremely bearish if the index sold off sharply
through these support levels.In that event,I would look for the
index to sell off well below the 1400 level.For now,stay on the
sides and watch these levels closely.”
(HarmonicTrader.com http://www.harmonictrader.com/members/
harmonic/markets/spx0900.htm)
The index declined steadily in the months that followed and triggered the next set of
harmonic levels at the 1300 level.
Two More Failed Harmonic Scenarios—1300 and 1150
Despite the bearish downtrend, the index still possessed critical support levels that continued to
maintain the long-term bullish trend.The next set of long-term harmonic support was well-
below the prior Bearish Gartley at 1500.Although the index possessed a Bullish AB=CD on the
weekly chart at the 1300 level, the price action failed this area decidedly.Within a few months
later, the price action was clearly headed for the 1150 area, where the next set of long-term
harmonic retracements converged.I outlined this scenario in my December 2000 market report,
stating:
“The test of 1150 will be one of the most critical market events of
the New Year.The 1150 area represents a convergence of
significant Fibonacci projections or retracements for each of the
past six years.From each of the previous years’low to this year’s
high,these retracements converge in the mid-1100 area:
• 1999 1.27 @ 1145
• 1998 .618 @ 1165
• 1997 .5 @ 1145
• 1996 .382 @ 1190
• 1994/95 .382 @ 1135 (general area)
A convergenceof numbers like this will most likely act as a magnet
and pull the index down to test all of the numbers in this area.A
capitulation sell-off could happen quickly and signal the end of the
bear trend.But,the index must hold this price level.Therefore,the
picture for the S&P is clear:A violation of the 1300 lows will cause
a decisive move to 1150.”
(HarmonicTrader.com http://www.harmonictrader.com/members/dow/
harmonic/markets/spx1200.htm)

Chapter 1 Contemporary Market Case Studies from a Harmonic Trading Perspective 19
The Road to 800
It didn’t take long for the index to fail the 1300 level and test 1100.In fact, three months after
the December 2000 report, the index reached this area.Although the price action bounced on
the initial test, there was little upside continuation, and the index quickly stalled in the following
months.As the daily price action stalled, I became increasingly concerned and issued this
warning in November 2001:
“The S&P is stuck in this sharp bear trend.Although there are a
few Bullish AB=CD patterns beginning to form,these patterns
complete at much lower levels—around 800.In the next few weeks,
the index will most likely encounter resistance as it tests the upper
range of the channel.A violation of the 1075 level would trigger a
retest of the September lows.Therefore,I remain bearish on the
index.”
(Harmonic Trader.com http://www.harmonictrader.com/members/dow/
harmonic/markets/spx1101.htm)
Although the 800 area was starting to shape up, it is important to note that this was nearly
a blasphemous statement at the time.Despite already losing one-third of its value, it was
apparent that the index clearly was heading toward the completion of the multiple AB=CD
patterns at the 800 level.

20 Harmonic Trading: Volume Two
Standard & Poor’s 500 (^SPX): Weekly
Bullish AB=CD Patterns
A decline to 800 was going to represent a 50% “hair cut”in the index, which would eventually
result in one of the most significant bear market declines in history (see Figure 1.2).Despite
such a bold prediction, I did not waver, as these patterns converged with a few long-term
retracements to clearly define the 800 level as critical harmonic and historic support.This
scenario was clearly coming together, signaling its fruition nearly 18 months prior to its eventual
completion.Although this scenario required some time before being realized, the harmonic
factors of the long-term downtrend were clearly dictating the direction of the price action.
Furthermore, it became apparent that the market direction was still down because the
overwhelming harmonic setup that completed at the 800 level represented such a fantastic
buying opportunity.
A
0.50
C
a
c
B
b
2.0
D d
Figure 1.2

Chapter 1 Contemporary Market Case Studies from a Harmonic Trading Perspective 21
After the first test of this projected support zone, I reiterated the 800 target a year later in my
November 2002 Standard & Poor’s market report, stating:
“It is important to note that the S&P 500 possesses the most
harmonic scenario of all of the indices.The historic retracements
and the distinct bullish AB=CD patterns defined the 800 area as a
major potential bottom.The critical element to validate this long-
term Potential Reversal Zone (PRZ) is time.If the index can hold
these levels and move higher,the stronger the support at 800 will
become… the index still needs more time to resolve the larger
bearish trend.The index is close to challenging the three-year
downtrend and decisively changing its course.But,it must provide
more constructive bullish action before ending the downtrend.For
these reasons,the official positionremains bearish.”
(HarmonicTrader.com http://www.harmonictrader.com/members/
dow/harmonic/markets/spx1102.htm)
The Historic Low at 800
After the S&P 500 bounced sharply on the initial test of the long-term Bullish AB=CD pattern
convergence, the index formed a distinct Bullish Bat in this significant Potential Reversal Zone
(PRZ).The completion of this smaller pattern within the larger PRZ was the defining harmonic
signal that confirmed the entire 800 area as historic support.In my March 2003 Standard &
Poor’s 500 market report, I outlined my argument for the completion of the bear market:
“Without question,the next two weeks will be a historically
defining time period for the markets.The Standard & Poor’s 500 has
been the Harmonic bellwether for all of the indices.The index has
consolidated for the past nine months in a considerable Harmonic
support zone at the 800 level.… It is amazing to consider the
significance of the 800 area and the price action of the S&P 500 for
the past 9 months.The clear Bullish AB=CD patterns and the
longer-term trend line support are defining this area as a historic
point for the index.”
(HarmonicTrader.com http://www.harmonictrader.com/members/
dow/harmonic/markets/spx0303.htm)

22 Harmonic Trading: Volume Two
Standard & Poor’s 500 (^SPX): Weekly
Bullish Bat Completing Within the Bullish
AB=CD(ab=cd) Potential Reversal Zone (PRZ) @ 800
Although the ultimate bear market low reversed at 770—slightly beyond the weekly PRZ, the
Bullish Bat pinpointed the precise area within this long-term support zone that marked the
beginning of the new bull market.In fact, in my April 2003 S&P 500 market report, I wrote:
“The ‘tea leaves’of the entire Harmonic convergence at 800 says
that the bottom has completed for the index.The impending
breakout of the bear market channel will be significant,and it will
confirm this 800 as a historic low.For these reasons,the official
position is now NEUTRAL with a bias to the upside.Although the
index still needs to take out some resistance levels—namely a
strong move above the 950 area—the index has resolved this long-
awaited Potential Reversal Zone (PRZ).”
(HarmonicTrader.com http://www.harmonictrader.com/members/dow/
harmonic/markets/spx0403.htm)
Figure 1.3 shows the distinct Bullish Bat that developed within the larger PRZ in the
800 area.
Figure 1.3

Chapter 1 Contemporary Market Case Studies from a Harmonic Trading Perspective 23
Standard & Poor’s 500 Conclusion
My experience in writing these market reports for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index in the early
days was one of the most educational endeavors of my life.The harmonic measurement
strategies proved incredibly reliable, as distinct patterns and Fibonacci ratios effectively defined
the critical turning points in the index for a period of many years.It is important to emphasize
that these techniques were new during the time that I offered my advisory service (1998–2004).
However, I knew that this new approach effectively analyzed price action on all time frames.
Therefore, I knew that if I properly applied these measurement strategies to the daily and
the weekly time frames as I did for intra-day trading, I would be able to accurately decipher
the long-term price action.The history of these reports clearly shows how the harmonic
measurement techniques consistently predicted the overall market direction and defined those
critical areas where the trend would potentially change.
NASDAQ Composite Review
In much the same manner as the S&P 500, the NASDAQ Composite Index possessed many
harmonic patterns and responded well to long-term Fibonacci ratios.Although the price action
was much more volatile in the NASDAQ, the predominant trend throughout this time was
dictated by several distinct “harmonic events”that accurately defined the future price action in
each case.
One notable aspect of the bear market in the NASDAQ Composite was the overwhelming
failure of many significant long-term patterns.The violation of many of these setups seriously
questioned the integrity of the entire Harmonic Trading approach.Although the overwhelming
failure of most bullish patterns during this time might have presented a frustrating environment
for the bulls, the technical phenomenon of these pattern violations was signaling a severe
decline at hand.I address these situations a bit later in this section, but there was as much to
learn about failed harmonic price action on the upside as well as the downside.
The Parabolic Rally to 5000
It was amazing.Incredible.Simply stated, the rally from August 1999 to the top in March 2000
was the greatest bullish price action that I have ever witnessed.This was an era of insanely
priced tech stocks that frequently traded 10–20 point price swings every day.Stocks such as
Dell, Microsoft, Qualcomm, Yahoo!, and others were among the greatest bull markets of all
time—right up there with the Tulip Bulb and 1929 manias!

24 Harmonic Trading: Volume Two
NASDAQ Composite ($COMPQ): Daily
The Rally to 5000
Despite the unprecedented rally, the price action continued higher.Figure 1.4 shows the
incredibly bullish price action from early 1999 to the top in March 2000.I discussed the
significance of the violated 3.14 extension in my January 2000 NASDAQ Composite market
report.
B
3.14
X
A
Figure 1.4

Chapter 1 Contemporary Market Case Studies from a Harmonic Trading Perspective 25
“This latest NASDAQ rally has been incredible.The volatile action
in some of the biggest NASDAQ stocks,such as Qualcomm and
Yahoo,has left many wondering if this is truly a “blow-off”top.And
that is the big question! In the past few weeks,the index has rallied
above the extreme 3.14 projection from the August correction.
Although the NASDAQ did sell off after exceeding this level,it has
found support in this area.One note of caution:With such sharp
action,the index could rally to the 1.618 of the XA leg,which would
put it at 4500! Believe it or not,I think this is possible.Stay
cautiously long but watch the first area potential resistance area at
4300.”
(HarmonicTrader.com http://www.harmonictrader.com/members/dow/
harmonic/markets/nasdaqjan00.htm)
The Inevitable Decline
It was coming.You could feel it.Tired and drunk on 30% year-over-year gains, the NASDAQ
Composite was sitting like Humpty Dumpty on the wall, and he was ready to fall! The index
tested the 5000 area briefly and started to stall.The one question on everyone’s mind was:“Is
this sustainable?”Clearly, it was not.Although making an arbitrary decision that the 5000 level
is critical psychological resistance does not represent the most cogent argument for a top, the
inability of the index to rally significantly above this area was the first sign of trouble.The index
started to roll over shortly after testing 5000, as it completed the all-time peak of the bull
market.Although the 5000 level had the ominous feeling of a historic top, the price action still
needed to exhibit technical behavior of the breakdown at hand.In my opinion, the top could not
be confirmed until the price action actually started to break down and begin to exhibit bearish
behavior.As a side note, I have spoken to many market technicians in past conversations
regarding the top in the NASDAQ at 5000.Many of these analysts made accurate predictions,
calling for a peak in the 5000 area.Intuitively, this seemed the right call.However, the price
action still needed to begin to manifest such behavior.From a Harmonic Trading perspective,
the NASDAQ Composite offered several distinct signals that confirmed the top at 5000.The first
was a distinct Bearish Bat that was forming on the retest of the initial peak above 5000.In my
NASDAQ Composite March 2000 market report, I outlined this setup:
“The NASDAQ formed another clear pattern,as the bearish Gartley
that completed recently has yielded a nice reversal.The pattern
was projected to complete around 5000—just past the .786 off the
high.”
(Author’s Note:I had not released the Bat yet,and I was calling this
a Gartley.)
(HarmonicTrader.com http://www.harmonictrader.com/members/dow/
harmonic/markets/nasd0300.htm)

26 Harmonic Trading: Volume Two
NASDAQ Composite ($COMPQ): Daily
Bearish Bat—March 2000
Much like the Bearish Gartley in the S&P 500, the Bearish Bat shown in Figure 1.5 was the
harmonic pattern that marked the beginning of the bear market for the NASDAQ.
Figure 1.5
This was the first significant failure of a prior high within the established bullish trend in
nearly five years.For the NASDAQ Composite, the prior two years represented one of the
strongest bull markets in history.Although I maintained a bullish position from 1998 until
September 2000, this pattern was clearly signaling trouble for the NASDAQ Composite on a
long-term basis, and its completion was one of the primary reasons for my bearish position.

Chapter 1 Contemporary Market Case Studies from a Harmonic Trading Perspective 27
NASDAQ Composite ($COMPQ): Daily
Bearish Bat—August 2000
After the initial decline from the peak at 5000 was complete, the NASDAQ Composite
consolidated to form another Bearish Bat pattern at the 4200 level in August 2000
(see Figure 1.6).
Figure 1.6
The price action following the completion of the pattern signaled another devastating
continuation of the severe bear market at hand.In fact, this Bearish Bat resulted in an
acceleration of the entire bear market, as the index quickly declined from just above 4000 to
well below the 3000 level.

28 Harmonic Trading: Volume Two
NASDAQ Composite ($COMPQ): Daily
Bearish Bat—January 2001
As if 2000 was not devastating enough, the index formed its third Bearish Bat for the year.
Although the NASDAQ Composite reversed shy of the 0.886 retracement, the index reversed
sharply, as another distinct PRZ marked the continuation of the devastating bear market (see
Figure 1.7).
Figure 1.7
After losing nearly half its value, this pattern marked another corrective peak within the
downtrend.Although it might have seemed that the pattern would not result in a significant
decline due to the devastation of the past year, this Bearish Bat led to largest percentage
decline of the entire bear market.

Chapter 1 Contemporary Market Case Studies from a Harmonic Trading Perspective 29
The Monster Bullish Gartley That Failed
After a few nasty continuations from distinct Bearish Bat patterns, the index was clearly in
the midst of a historic decline.The decisive bearish continuation throughout this decline was
indicating the severity of the downtrend.In fact, as early as October 2000 in my NASDAQ
Composite Market Report, I discussed this technical possibility long before it was actually
realized.
“If the index breaks below these lows at 3000,the NASDAQ will
most likely fall quickly in crashing fashion… there is ‘nothing but
air’below this area… the overwhelming convergence of harmonic
numbers is in the 2200 area.This would be an extreme target on the
downside and represent a significant buying opportunity.”
(HarmonicTrader.com http://www.harmonictrader.com/members/dow/
harmonic/markets/nasd1000.htm)

30 Harmonic Trading: Volume Two
NASDAQ Composite ($COMPQ): Weekly
Failed Bullish Gartley—April 2001
After realizing the next convergence of weekly projections indicated that the index was headed
for the 2200 area, as illustrated in Figure 1.8, I truly believed that this would be a substantial
low for the NASDAQ Composite Index.However, this was merely a brief stop in a further slide
that would take the index much lower.Although it did not seem possible at the time, I knew that
a severe violation of this long-term harmonic support would trigger another steep continuation
of the bear market.Although a minor bounce was experienced on the initial test of the upper
range of the PRZ, the price action severely lagged in this area.Furthermore, the eventual
continuation of the decline underscored the severe bearish condition that would require much
more time to stabilize and to reverse the downtrend.
A
C
B
0.6 1 8
D
0.786
X
Figure 1.8

Chapter 1 Contemporary Market Case Studies from a Harmonic Trading Perspective 31
NASDAQ Composite ($COMPQ): Weekly
Failed Bullish Gartley Potential Reversal Zone (PRZ)
The chart in Figure 1.9 shows the overwhelming convergence of harmonic numbers that
defined the PRZ range between 2165–2275.The weekly PRZ clearly shows the decisive price
action that violated this harmonic support.In fact, the index bounced briefly after exceeding
this area on the initial test, only to continue lower after reversing from the prior failed PRZ.
I remember thinking at this point:“Can it get any worse?”
B
1.
6
1
8
D
0.786
Figure 1.9
No More Harmonic Scenarios—Now What?
At this point, the persistent downtrend that violated the monster weekly Bullish Gartley was
signaling more trouble ahead.One of the dilemmas with the monster Bullish Gartley was that
its structure could have possibly been interpreted as a Bat pattern.Specifically, the B point of
the pattern was not an exact 0.618 retracement.Hence, the possibility that the entire four-year
price structure could actually result in a completion of a Bullish Bat in the 1700 area quickly

32 Harmonic Trading: Volume Two
became reality, as the index sank under the 2200 level.Below the multiyear 0.786, the only
other harmonic number to consider was the multiyear 0.886 retracement at 1750.This scenario
was difficult to imagine at the time, but the overwhelming bearish trend eventually drove the
index to test under this area, as well.
Although the alignment of the structure was somewhat in question, the pattern was distinct
enough to have been interpreted as a Bat and not a Gartley.Regardless, the index continued
well beyond this level too.Eventually, the NASDAQ Composite even violated the original low
point (X) of the pattern that was established in 1998—essentially erasing all of the gains made
from the past four years.
NASDAQ Conclusion
Despite bottoming above the all-important psychological 1000 level, the total destruction of this
multiyear bear market was on par with the greatest declines of all time.Quite frankly, the
multiyear NASDAQ Composite chart is similar in structure and magnitude to the Dow Jones
Industrial Average Crash of 1929.Although the Crash of 1929 was more severe, the NASDAQ
Composite lost an astounding 80% of its total value and the devastation remains to this day.
Despite the upside progress since the bear market low, the index has languished in comparison
to the other major indices, as it has barely retraced to the all-time 38.2% minimum bear market
level, as of this writing date.
The parabolic rise and ultimate decline of the NASDAQ Composite during this time was one
of the most challenging trading environments that I have ever faced.Although I realized the
extent of the impending bear market early on and stayed exclusively on the short side for most
of this period, the initial failures of substantial bullish patterns, especially in those first nine
months, taught me a great deal about their importance as continuation signals.Furthermore,
the action in the NASDAQ Composite led me to respect the importance of the predominant
trend in all trading situations more than ever before.Whether I am trading on a 5, 15, 60-
minute, or daily time frame, I now analyze all setups with respect to the predominant trend.For
the NASDAQ Composite, the price action eventually broke out of the multiyear established
downtrend channel after reversing from the bear market low.But, this required quite a bit of
time before the trend reversal was confirmed.
The most important consideration from the NASDAQ Composite advisory experience was
the respect that I now possess for the ability of distinct patterns to define critical turning points
in the price action.Whether a harmonic pattern reverses successfully or fails the PRZ, the
technical information provided by this phenomenon to act as “action spots”of the overall
direction of the price action that can define excellent trading opportunities.
The lessons learned from the NASDAQ’s performance during this time reinforced some
important concepts within the Harmonic Trading approach.Despite the devastating decline, the
various harmonic patterns and long-term Fibonacci ratios proved to be extremely effective
measurement tools that provided consistently accurate information in the NASDAQ Composite
analysis during an era of market extremes that comes along once every century!

Chapter 1 Contemporary Market Case Studies from a Harmonic Trading Perspective 33
Dow Jones Industrial Average 2000-2010 Review
Although the 2000 bear market in the Dow Jones Industrial Average was severe, the index
endured an even more devastating decline in its second bear market of the decade.The drop in
2008 was sudden in comparison to the price action earlier in the decade, which required most
of three years to reach its ultimate low.
The volatility of the Industrials during the last two decades is remarkable.Starting with a
substantial drop in 2000, the index rallied to new highs by mid-decade only to retrace the entire
move and more.As the index enters another decade, the action of these two bear markets
holds tremendous long-term significance.The action of the 2000 bear market established the
parameters for the rest of the decade.After the decline of 2008, the long-term price history has
established several critical technical and structural considerations.First, let’s review the
conditions of the 2000 bear market that preceded 2008’s demise.
The 2000 Bear Market—The Top, the Distribution, and
the Eventual Decline
Throughout 2000 as the other indices were breaking down substantially, the Dow Jones
Industrials were still consolidating after violating their multiyear uptrend.Although many have
argued that the bull market of the 1990s began from the 1987 (some suggest the 1982 low was
the real bottom) the bull market mania began in earnest with the breakout in 1995.For the next
several years, the Dow Jones Industrial Average rallied sharply, as the index continued to attain
year-over-year new highs.The interesting aspect of the longer-term price action during this
five-year accelerated period between 1995 and 2000 was the fact that the index was able to
hold at a critical Fibonacci retracement of each of the prior year’s rally.In essence, the weekly
price action possessed a strong technical upside, as the index was able to make higher highs
and higher lows for five years in a row.After the peak in early 2000, the index stalled and
started to roll over on the weekly chart.The long-term trend line starting from the 1995 low was
violated in mid-2000, and the index languished from that point forward.The five-year series of
weekly bullish retracements was violated at this time, as well.Therefore, the price action was
clearly beginning to signal a change at hand.
As I mentioned previously, the Dow Jones Industrial Average did not suffer the extent of the
decline as did the NASDAQ Composite in the early stages of the bear market.In fact, the
action in this index appeared weak, but it managed to hold in the 10,000 area for quite some
time before declining sharply.On its own, the price action in the Industrials was not terribly
negative until the latter half of the bear market.However, the steady distribution as evidenced
by the weak sideways action in combination with the severe declines of the other two indices
were the most critical factors that signaled lower prices.

34 Harmonic Trading: Volume Two
Dow Jones Industrial Average (^DJI): Weekly
Bullish Retracements 1994–2001
The weekly chart in Figure 1.10 shows the sequence of annual harmonic retracements.The
structural pattern each year rallied to a new all-time high, retraced to a distinct Fibonacci
retracement of the prior year, and continued higher.
0
5
0.
0.7 8 6
8
1
6
0.
2
8
3
0.
0.6 1 8
0.786
Figure 1.10
As long as the index was able to maintain this uptrend, holding the prior year’s critical
retracement, the long-term trend remained up.However, the series of retracements came to an
end in 2000, as the index violated its critical 50% retracement.

Chapter 1 Contemporary Market Case Studies from a Harmonic Trading Perspective 35
Dow Jones Industrial Average (^DJI): Daily
Bearish Retracements
After an initial sharp decline from the early 2000 peak where the index sank to the low 9000
level, the Industrials consolidated in an ever-tightening series of bearish retracements for the
rest of that year (see Figure 1.11).
0.
7
8
6
0.
7
8
6
0.886
0.886
Figure 1.11
In my June 2000 Dow Jones Industrial Market Report, I wrote:
“The action in the Dow Industrials continues to trade in a tighter
range.Sooner rather than later it is going to break in a direction
that will define the trend for the next few months.As the chart
illustrates,the index has traded in a downward trending channel,
where it has continually rallied to the 78.6% retracement of each
prior sell-off.”
(HarmonicTrader.com http://www.harmonictrader.com/members/
harmonic/markets/dow0600.htm)

36 Harmonic Trading: Volume Two
The 9/11 Crash, Rebound, and Another Sell Signal
As terrible as the events of September 11, 2001, were, the crash in the Dow Jones Industrial
Average as a result of that fateful day had been building for quite some time.The clear
distribution from the year prior and the more severe action in the other indices were dominant
factors that contributed to the severe bearish trend developing in the Industrials.Furthermore,
the index lacked any clear patterns or distinct harmonic bullish setups on either the daily or the
weekly chart to suggest that a low had been completed.Although the 9/11 crash was severe,
the net result after the crash and corresponding bounce was actually a further reinforcement of
the existing bearish channel.The 9/11 crash was a challenging technical situation due to the
fact that it did appear to be the capitulation event, which most market pundits believed would
mark the bear market low.Despite the bullish consensus, I did not share this view.In my Dow
Jones Industrial Average March 2002 report, I wrote:
“For now,the index is trading above its current downtrend
channel.… The whole scenario appears to be another monster bear
trap.Also,the impulsive action off the September lows does not
represent a “stable”and “maintainable”trend.In fact,the 1974 and
1987 collapses required years to recover their losses—which is a
more favorable technical scenario than the current recovery.In
addition,the existence of many bearish patterns that have yet to
completely resolve their action suggests that the index needs time,
if it is going to assert itself to new highs.For these reasons,I
remain bearish on the index.”
(HarmonicTrader.com http://www.harmonictrader.com/members/dow/
harmonic/markets/dow0302.htm)
As I stated in the March report, I believed that the index needed to retest the 9/11 crash low
or at least retest a portion of this initial rally.The impulsive nature of the rally following the crash
was not sustainable, as the index started to stall at the top range of the bear market channel.
Although the technical action was clear, many “gurus”were calling for a new bull market.In my
April 2002 market report, I reiterated my case for a continuation of the bear market:
“The Dow Industrials have chopped around quite a bit in the past
month without much net result.The index has sold off recently,
closely testing the 10,000 mark.The action has been lackluster,as
most of the rallies are a one-day phenomenon,while the declines
have slowly dragged.… There are many market analysts making
claims of the beginning stages of the first bull market of the 21st
century.I’ve heard overly bullish targets anywhere from 15,000 to a
recent call by a well-known money manager for 30,000 in six years.
I think these claims warrant caution.Technically,these price targets
cannot be even considered until certain resistance levels are
breached.… The ‘Line in the Sand’for such a breakout is above the
11,300 area—the all-time 0.886 retracement from the January 2000
high to the September 2001 low.It is a number that I have in the
back of my mind and I have mentioned it in a few past reports.But,
I continue to stick with my bearish overall position for several
reasons.”

Chapter 1 Contemporary Market Case Studies from a Harmonic Trading Perspective 37
• First of all,the trend is still down.It is amazing that some
analysts are calling for a new bull market when there are no
technical signs that would support such an argument.As
noted by the red channel,the Dow Industrials have failed to
break out of the two-year downtrend.
• Lower highs and lower lows.Each successive critical high and
low since the January 2000 peak has continued to trade at
lower levels.
• Lack of clear pattern.Throughout the Dow’s history,the index
has signaled new market uptrends with distinct bullish
patterns,including distinct secondary tests of prior critical
lows.The rally since September has been more impulsive than
constructive.This impulsive action can be observed in the Dow
Jones Transports,as well.Essentially,the index must provide a
significant retest of the September low to establish a
constructive and stable base.
…I will outline my longer-term downside targets over the next few
Dow Industrial reports.Although it is a long way down from current
levels,my first target for the Dow Jones Industrial Average is 6800.
There,I said it.In May’s report,I will explain my reasons.In the
short term,the Industrials have declined after testing an important
0.618 retracement at 10,400,serving as the critical resistance.I
favor a continuation of the recent selling,and I’m looking for the
index to begin to break under 10,000 to as low as the 9500 level.
Remember,the longer-term trend remains bearish and unless
convincing upside action materializes,the Industrials will continue
to slide.”
(HarmonicTrader.com http://www.harmonictrader.com/members/
harmonic/markets/dow0402.htm)
Finally, A Low in Sight…One Problem, It’s 3000 Points
Lower
Quite simply, the index was clearly stalling at a critical 0.618 retracement at the top range of
the bear market trend channel.As the index continued to slide further, I knew that the next
breakdown and continuation of the primary bearish trend could lead to a much further decline.
As the index started to roll over, it became apparent that this next leg down would possibly
trigger a massive Bullish AB=CD.

38 Harmonic Trading: Volume Two
Dow Jones Industrial Average (^DJI): Weekly
Figure 1.12 shows the actual chart from the April market report.Clearly, the breakdown was
beginning to accelerate.The impending breakdown of the sharp up trend line and the reversal
at the weekly 0.618 retracement were distinct signs of the continuation of the bear market.
A 0.
7
50% Retracement 1987-2000 @ 6760 0 7 C
61.8% Retracement 1994-2000 @ 6750
Bullish AB=CD @ 6750
B 1.41
D
Figure 1.12

Chapter 1 Contemporary Market Case Studies from a Harmonic Trading Perspective 39
Dow Jones Industrial Average (^DJI): Weekly
Monster Bullish AB=CD
The chart in Figure 1.13 is the original post from the initial prediction of an eventual low in the
6800 area.The breakdown following the test of the 0.618 weekly retracement turned out to be
a critical continuation point within the predominant bearish trend.In fact, it was probably the
best shorting opportunity of the entire bear market, as the index accelerated to the downside
after reversing at the C point of the massive AB=CD.
A
0.618
C
B
1.618
D
Figure 1.13

40 Harmonic Trading: Volume Two
The steady downside continuation in the months following confirmed the continuation of the
bear market.I reiterated this position in my May 2002 Dow Jones Industrial Average market
report and explained the longer-term reasons for the bear market low to occur at the
completion of the Bearish AB=CD:
“As I mentioned in last month’s report,the longer-term picture
remains bearish.This 15-year chart—starting from the crash low of
1987—reveals several interesting aspects of the future action.
Clearly,the sharp uptrend from the 1994 low to the 2000 high has
been violated.Furthermore,the chart shows that the 15-year bull
trend from the 1987 low is quite a distance from the current level.It
is important to be mindful of these two trend realities:
1.Obviously,the 1994–2000 rally,as defined by the sharp
uptrend,is over.
2.The 15-year trend line represents substantial support and
defines the lower limit of any significant potential correction.
The Dow Industrials are consolidating—more aptly termed
distributing—below the bull market uptrend of the second half of
the 1990s.… The Harmonics of the long-term price action confirm
the potential support of the long-term uptrend.Assuming the
current year’s high will remain untested,a potential Bullish AB=CD
completes at 6,700.This area is complemented by two critical
retracements from the 1987 low and the 1994 low,a 50%
retracement at 6,760 and a 61.8% retracement at 6,700,respectively.
These levels converge with the 15-year trend line and would
represent a correction worthy of resuming the long-term bullish
trend.… The overall market position for the Dow Jones Industrials
remains bearish.… I felt compelled to outline the larger scenario
that I have been monitoring for quite some time.I have been
officially bearish on this index for two years,and I will not change
this position until one of two things happens:
1.A significant correction to the aforementioned long-term
levels.
or
2.A clear and substantial violation of the primary bearish trend.”
(HarmonicTrader.com http://www.harmonictrader.com/members/
harmonic/markets/dow0502.htm)

Chapter 1 Contemporary Market Case Studies from a Harmonic Trading Perspective 41
Price Action Just Above the Potential Reversal Zone
(PRZ):The Bullish Bat at the Bear Market Low
The Industrials continued to slide for another year after making the initial call for the bear
market low in the 6700–6800 range in April 2002.In combination with the psychological 7000
level, I firmly believed the index would test this immensely critical long-term harmonic support.
As the price action sank under the 7500 level, I knew the index was close.But, I firmly believed
in the “magnet effect”of so many technical factors to “attract”the ultimate low to occur in this
area.Furthermore, the S&P 500 possessed a similar long-term setup, and both indices were in
the midst of completing their respective harmonic patterns.In October 2002, the index nearly
tested the 7000 level, as the Dow declined sharply during this ominous seasonal time period.
The Industrials sank under the 7200 level before bouncing sharply.Despite another near-
completion of the long-awaited PRZ, I remained bearish.In my opinion, the harmonic support in
the 6700–6800 area was so substantial that the index would eventually test it.Furthermore, the
Industrials lacked any other substantial technical possibility.
After a sharp but brief rally, the index rolled over again, sinking to retest the October lows.
This retest presented a dilemma, as the Dow Jones Industrial Average formed a distinct Bullish
Bat.In addition, the S&P 500 formed the same pattern;however, it had already tested its long-
term harmonic support zone.In my April 2003 Dow Jones Industrial Average market report,
I discussed this dilemma:
“After completing this Dow Bullish Bat,the index has continued to
move higher and hold weekly lows.This is crucial for the stability
of the index.But what about 6800? The patterns indicated at a
minimum that this was a primary target for this bear market.…
Recent weeks have confirmed these lows as critical support,
indicating inherent strength.… Since last summer,the index has
tested the low 7000s three times and has been able to hold this
area for eight months.With this type of action,the index is poised
to make another attempt to retest the upper bear channel—at a
minimum.For the Dow Jones Industrials,its defining resistance is
the 9000 area.As I stated in last month’s report,‘The next few
weeks,if not days,will likely resolve the entire Dow Jones 6800
scenario.’The following few days were the beginning of this
resolution,as the indexwas able to hold the third test of the 7000
area.… The biggest question of all is:‘Are we looking at a historic
low for the index?’Possibly.However,the index must provide
confirmation and take out the aforementioned resistance levels
before committing to such a stance.…”
(HarmonicTrader.com http://www.harmonictrader.com/members/dow/
harmonic/markets/dow0403.htm)

42 Harmonic Trading: Volume Two
Dow Jones Industrial Average (^DJI): Weekly
Bullish Bat
The weekly chart in Figure 1.14 shows the Bullish Bat in the Dow Jones Industrial Average that
formed over the course of six months just above the 7000 level.The precise reversal and
decisive bullish continuation in the weeks and months that followed confirmed this pattern as
the definitive technical signal marking this area as the bear market low.
Figure 1.14
The Bullish Bat was considerably large, as the entire pattern comprised approximately 2000
points from high to low.Therefore, this was a substantial harmonic factor in my overall analysis.
It is important to note that I did not immediately switch from bearish to a bullish position.
Officially, I switched to a neutral stance in my April 2003 Dow Jones Industrial Average market
report after the Bullish Bat completed, and I clearly stated that the primary bearish trend was
coming to an end:

Chapter 1 Contemporary Market Case Studies from a Harmonic Trading Perspective 43
“The biggest question of all is:‘Are we looking at a historic low for
the index?’Possibly.However,the index must provide confirmation
and take out the aforementioned resistance levels before
committing to such a stance.There are several basic long-term
factors,such as historic trend,decennial cycles,and significant
retracements that must be considered.And these factors indicate
that the index is close to resolving this multiyear downtrend.For
these reasons,the official position is now NEUTRAL.Essentially,
this position is respecting the signs of the market and anticipating
an eventual new uptrend.Before committing to a bullish stance,the
index has some work to finish.But the upside is becoming the
prevalent bias.”
(HarmonicTrader.com http://www.harmonictrader.com/members/dow/
harmonic/markets/dow0403.htm)
At a minimum, the price action and the completion of the Bullish Bat were key signs that the
primary downtrend of the past three years was coming to an end.Furthermore, the decisive
upside in the months following its completion signaled inherent long-term strength at hand, as
the Industrials eventually climbed to new all-time highs within three years after its completion.

44 Harmonic Trading: Volume Two
The 2008 Bear Market
The ability of the Industrials to rally to new all-time highs was remarkable.The multiyear
uptrend of the 1990s was clearly over.It seemed as if a new multidecade trend was beginning.
Surely, the 2000 bear market represented a significant historic correction—enough to possibly
justify a new bull market.Despite such rationalizations, the 2008 bear market did provide early
signals of a significant decline at hand.Specifically, the price action reversed sharply from the
prior year’s peak.In fact, the index lost nearly 15–20% of its value before anyone really knew
what was unfolding.
From a Harmonic Trading perspective, the index established a distinct Bullish 5-0 structure
on the weekly chart that possessed a smaller Bullish AB=CD.The initial points of the pattern
were well defined.As the price action declined in the final leg of the setup, it became apparent
that this structure was the make-or-break support of the prior multiyear rally (see Figure 1.15).
Although I was not actively operating my advisory service, I was compelled to outline these
developments in a report on my website.
C
2.0
0
A
D
0.5 0
X 1.27
B
Figure 1.15

Chapter 1 Contemporary Market Case Studies from a Harmonic Trading Perspective 45
In a report in July 2008, I wrote:
“The Dow Jones Industrial Average has sustained remarkable
damage the past 12 months.Although the index recently declined
sharply—nearly 10 percent in 30 days,the trend is still clearly
down.Remarkably though,the index has formed an exact 5-0
pattern on the weekly chart.The distinct structure clearly points to
a critical technical test in the coming months at slightly lower
levels.… With the prevalence of the weekly Bullish 5-0 pattern and
the AB=CD pattern,there are several substantial technical events
about to unfold.Following this short-term bounce,I expect a
complete test of the entire Potential Reversal Zone (PRZ) at the
10,400 range.… Back in March,I outlined the entire scenario for the
Dow Jones Industrial Average at a group presentation in Atlanta.
In particular,I was addressing the numerous Harmonic levels at
the 11,600 are.… As I stated in my presentation in March,I was
very concerned and still am about the long-term state of the Dow
Jones Industrial Average.More importantly,a failure beyond the
mid-10,000 area would essentially trigger a massive continuation
and an eventual retest of the entire 2003 low.For now,it is
important to focus on the current action and impending roll over of
the recent rally. The eventual test of the mid-10,000 area will
dictate the long-term action. It is critical to prepare for this
impending technical action and upcoming test of this substantial
harmonic support zone.Until then,it is important to stay with
predominant trend,which is still down.”
(HarmonicTrader.com http://www.harmonictrader.com/
hownowdow708.htm)
Figure 1.16

46 Harmonic Trading: Volume Two
Figure 1.17 shows how the price action failed this projected support in dramatic fashion and
actually exceeded the 2003 low.Although the 5-0 pattern failed, the decisive breakdown was a
clear continuation of the predominant trend.Not to mention, the extreme warning sign of the
sharp sell off at the pattern’s completion contributed to the bearish trend.
D
0.50
Figure 1.17
The index has rallied from these lows, but it is still bound by the respective multidecade
limits of support and resistance.For the Industrials, the lows of the 2000 and 2008 bear
markets—approximately in the 7000 area—possess incredible significance for the next decade
and beyond.Regardless of the end result, more than anything the volatile action of the past
decade has mandated a greater attention to the market’s behavior and a greater readiness to
capitalize on both sidesof the market.

Chapter 1 Contemporary Market Case Studies from a Harmonic Trading Perspective 47
Dow Jones Industrial Average Conclusion
More than any other index, the Dow Jones Industrials required a bit of discretion and
confirmation to decipher the long-term trend.For example, in the 2000 bear market, the price
action failed to completely test the 6700–6800 area.Despite falling shy, it is important to note
that this prediction was accurate within the context of the time period.At a minimum, the
harmonic measurement techniques provided a reliable ballpark area that effectively identified
the long-term potential support for this multiyear bear market.Also, the actual low was
approximately 400 points above—or less than 10% of the entire move—from the projected
target.Most important, this target was identified nearly 18 months prior to its realization.
From a harmonic perspective, this was not an ideal conclusion to the multiyear bear market.
It would have been a perfect situation if the index would have reversed from the completion
point of the long-term Bullish AB=CD.But it did not.Similar to this discretion, the failure of the
5-0 pattern in 2008 was not an ideal situation.However, these events still pinpointed the critical
areas to examine for market turning points.
Did Harmonic Trading techniques fail to provide the correct conclusion in these situations? I
don’t think so.In real trading situations, there has to be some degree of flexibility in the overall
market analysis to allow for the variations that may arise from the model situation.Although the
market failed to react ideally, the performance of Harmonic Trading measurement techniques
throughout this period was extremely accurate.At both the all-time peak and the bear market
lows for the index, the approach warned of the impending changes about to unfold in the
predominant trend.
The Lessons from the Bear Markets of 2000 and 2010
The experiences of the past two decades have facilitated an evolution of the entire Harmonic
Trading approach.I realized that the patterns were not ultimate buy or sell signals in their own
right.Although I always stressed the principle that harmonic patterns are first and foremost
“signposts of potential future price action,”the overwhelming failure of the bullish patterns
during the multiyear bear markets in particular required a broader perspective to interpret what
the market was really indicating at this time.Specifically, the failure of harmonic patterns was to
be regarded more than I had in the past.This was a difficult admission for me because in a way
it devalued the significance and potential for the patterns themselves to comprise a stand-alone
trading methodology.Regardless, a more comprehensive interpretation of harmonic price action
was required to recognize the market’s signals and to determine the overall direction of the
primary trend.
Without a doubt, I learned a great deal during this time.In the long run, this was an
important evolutionary process that was essential to the advancement of the Harmonic Trading
approach.These lessons refocused my attention on price action in the completion area of
harmonic patterns, especially with respect to the predominant trend.Furthermore, this strategic
adjustment led to new strategies that expanded the technical tools employed within the
Harmonic Trading arsenal.

48 Harmonic Trading: Volume Two
It’s Not the Pattern’s Fault…
The structural significance of harmonic patterns has been debated in recent years.I
encountered some criticism in those early years regarding the effectiveness of patterns.
For example, some maintained that since the monster bullish setups failed from
2000–2002—especially the NASDAQ Composite—Harmonic Trading failed to work.No! In fact,
the numerous bullish pattern failures were screaming that the predominant trend in many of
these equity markets would remain bearish for quite some time.Again in 2008, the index
violated a significant weekly setup—the critical Bullish 5-0 pattern—which underscored the
extent of the damage at hand.Therefore, I would have to argue that the system did not fail.
Throughout these bear declines, the demonstrative price action signaled their overwhelming
continuation, as most of the significant bullish patterns on daily and even weekly time frames
yielded little to no support at these harmonic zones.In short, my point is that the bear markets
of 2000 and 2008 represented a unique test of the Harmonic Trading strategies as an effective
methodology.But, these difficulties inspired a more integrative approach that has expanded the
application of the basic interpretations immensely.
A Feel for the Markets
InThe Harmonic Trader, I discussed the importance of developing a feel for the markets,
especially as it relates to harmonic price behavior.Developing this “intuitive feel”for the
markets is where the lines of the art and the science of trading merge.Again, despite the fact
that incredibly harmonic price action helped to determine the overall market positions, these
conclusions still fall under the “artistic side”of trading.I prefer to call these types of decisions
“educated assessments.”Regardless, this situation truly manifests the “feel for price action”that
is required to successfully navigate the financial markets.
One of my favorite classic books on the markets—How to Make the Stock Market
Make Money for You by Ted Warren—aptly describes this feel as a technical “know how”to be
successful:
“Learn to recognize the variety of bases,consolidations,trends,
false ceilings,false support levels,false starts,and shakeouts.
There are internal changes which take place,all of which have an
important bearing on the future action of a stock.If you can detect
these formations,you will acquire the ‘know-how’in forecasting
stock price movements.”
(How to Make the Stock Market Make Money for You[Grants Pass, OR:
The Ted Warren Company, 1966] 66).
I believe that the “feel for the markets”must always be based upon the established principles
and technical rules that define the Harmonic Trading approach.Throughout my experience
operating an advisory service based exclusively on this approach, my decisions were always
based upon the application of the standard harmonic measurement techniques.This adherence
to a “strict constructionist”view of the Harmonic Trading rules is the primary reason I was able

Chapter 1 Contemporary Market Case Studies from a Harmonic Trading Perspective 49
to anticipate the critical changes and stay with the predominant trend throughout this era for all
three major U.S.indices.Furthermore, this experience permanently validated the effectiveness
and importance of these techniques to determine probable future price action in the financial
markets.
Now What—Long-Term Harmonic Projections
Elliott Wave Principleby Alfred Frost and Robert Prechter was a revolutionary technical book
for its time.In addition to integrating price structures with Fibonacci ratios and outlining precise
wave counts, the book presented some remarkable future projections for the markets.The book
was written during a period of time when the markets were still languishing in an extended
long-term sideways range.After crashing in 1974, the markets experienced a volatile few years,
as equities failed to recover.Despite the unfavorable conditions of their time, Frost and Prechter
presented some bold predictions for the next decade.At the very end of the book (in their third
edition), they called for an all-time target of 4000 on the Dow Jones Industrial Average by 1990.
In fact, on page 188, they outlined their case:
“…based on Elliott’s channeling methods,to the upper channel
line,wage in this case cuts through the price action in the 3500-
4000 range in the latter half of the 1980s…therefore,one point to be
watching for a possible market peak is five years from 1982,or
1987.Coincidentally,as we pointed out in the text,1987 happens to
be a Fibonacci 13years from the corrections low point in 1974,21
years from the peak of wave 3 in 1966,and 55years from the start
of wave want in 1932.To complete the picture,1987 is a perfect
date for the Dow to hit its 3686 target sense to reach at the Dow
would have to burst briefly through its upper channel line in a
‘throw-over,’which is typical of exhaustion moves (such as the
1929 peak).Based upon a 1.618 time multiple to Wave I and upon
equality to the 1920s fifth cycle wave,and a year wave V would
point to 1990 as the next most likely year for a peak.”
(Elliott Wave Principle[Gainseville, GA:New Classics Library, 1978]).
The interesting aspect regarding this study was that Frost and Prechter were utilizing prior
measurement techniques to project future targets.Although Harmonic Trading does not discuss
wave counts, similar comparative measurement techniques from the past can be employed to
determine critical future price levels.Surprisingly, their predictions were accurate as the Dow
Jones Industrial Average crashed in 1987 and managed to test the 3000 level by 1990—a mere
15% shy of their long-term target.
It must have been alarming to hear someone predict that the Dow Jones Industrial Average
would more than triple from the current level in 1983—the date of the market report from their
third edition.In fact, the 3500–4000 area represented a critical technical level where the index
consolidated briefly before accelerating sharply in a historic breakout.Similar to Harmonic
Trading, their prediction was based upon the analysis of specific price waves that established
their technical measurement methods.This type of analysis was unprecedented for the time,

50 Harmonic Trading: Volume Two
yet the methodology held its own throughout the following years, and remains to be a reliable
framework to analyze price action.Although the price levels from this Elliott Wave study have
been vastly exceeded in the years since, the effectiveness of such techniques to gauge critical
long-term technical areas in advance is impressive.
In much the same manner, I believe Harmonic Trading techniques will continue to hold their
own as an effective methodology to analyze price action.Regardless of the time frame—either
long-term multiyear price projections or intra-day short-term analysis—harmonic measurement
techniques offer an effective means to decipher market movements in a similar fashion as
Elliott Wave.
Harmonic Projections—The Year 2025
It’s the year 2025 and the Dow Jones Industrial Average is trading at 36,000! Am I kidding?
Partially.However, the analogous prediction of Frost and Prechter’s decade forecast related to
current levels would equate to over a 300% gain or a Dow Jones Industrial Average reading of
approximately 25,000 points from current levels of 10,000.Although the relative market position
is different than that of the early 1980s when Frost and Prechter made their historic prediction,
such long-term forecasts must be based upon cogent measurement tools and thorough
technical reasoning.I am not making a prediction that this will occur.Rather, I am merely
speculating along the same lines as the Prechter forecast.
In that vein, I present a similar analysis within the context of the Harmonic Trading approach.
Historically, the markets have responded to long-term technical levels as defined by respective
substantial harmonic retracement and projection ratios of prior price history.The incredibly
harmonic long-term price action in both the bear market of 2000 and 2008 exemplified the
ability of these measurements to provide an effective framework of critical technical levels to
consider.
Standard & Poor’s 500 (^SPX): Weekly
Historic Harmonic Projections
Although this may seem oversimplified, the progression of harmonic ratios serves as a general
framework to analyze future long-term price action (see Figure 1.18).For the S&P 500, the
price action recovered following both the bear market of 2000 and 2008.Although the index has
retraced 50% of the prior decline since the 2009 low as of this writing date, the all-time historic
0.886 bearish retracement will serve as the true historic test.Eventually, the index will test new
highs.But, the price action at the long-term 0.886 retracements in cases like these has
frequently provided a great deal of indication of whether it will happen sooner or later.Aside
from the all-time 0.886 retracement as resistance, the index has established historic support
since the bear market low of 2003 and 2009 that completes in the 700 area.This type of long-
term price action could be manifesting a stable recovery like many prior historic cases—namely
the 1929–1934 and the 1987–1992 markets.

Chapter 1 Contemporary Market Case Studies from a Harmonic Trading Perspective 51
Figure 1.18
As long as this multiyear uptrend is maintained, I truly believe that the index will retest
historic resistance at the long-term 0.886 retracement level above 1500.This is attainable
within the context of the 2025 scenario.Again, this framework depends upon steadily
maintaining the uptrend support from the recent bear market low.

52 Harmonic Trading: Volume Two
NASDAQ Composite ($COMPQ): Weekly
Historic Harmonic Projections
This long-term chart of the NASDAQ Composite, shown in Figure 1.19, is strikingly similar to
the price action in the Dow Jones Industrial Average following the Crash of 1929.If these are
similar situations, it will likely take the same 25 years for the NASDAQ to recover all of its
losses as the Industrials did following the Crash of 1929.One indication of this is the fact that
the NASDAQ has failed to exceed the minimum 38.2% bear market retracement in the past
decade.
Figure 1.19
The most interesting long-term harmonic level for the NASDAQ is the 0.886 retracement at
4675.This essentially represents a 100% gain from current levels, but it just might be the year
2025 or later before it is realized!

Chapter 1 Contemporary Market Case Studies from a Harmonic Trading Perspective 53
Dow Jones Industrial Average (^DJI): Weekly
Historic Harmonic Projections
The Dow Jones Industrial Average possesses the best chance of testing the long-term
harmonic resistance levels.Having already recovered half of the 2008 losses, the index has
established substantial multiyear support in the 7000 area (see Figure 1.20).
Figure 1.20
The most significant harmonic level within the next few years for the index is the 0.886
retest above of the prior all-time high.Given the volatility of the last decade, 14,000–15,000
is possible.If the next ten years are anything like the last, an even higher target is not as
far-fetched as it might seem.Given the year 2025, the Dow Jones Industrial Average would
need to triple from current levels.Although such speculation can be interesting, this does not
excuse complacency, as the 80% washout in the NASDAQ demonstrated.However, it is
important to be mindful that such long-term levels have provided reliable technical projections
in the past.Furthermore, future harmonic areas will help to decipher the progress of the
predominant trend.

54 Harmonic Trading: Volume Two
Markets Review Conclusion
Before we continue with the new concepts within the Harmonic Trading approach, I believe that
this review was an essential foundation to lead into the new material.I’m proud of the advisory
service that I provided for so many years.The ability to accurately assess such volatile price
action over the course of that time proved that these techniques are truly effective in
deciphering price action in the financial markets.In addition, I believe that these market
reports represent accurate case studies, further substantiating the Harmonic Trading approach.
Over the course of the past two decades, there have been many advancements in the basic
approach of Harmonic Trading.New patterns, new ratios, and unprecedented measurement
techniques have evolved directly from the lessons learned from the experience of providing this
advisory service.I believe that the new techniques presented in this book substantially increase
the arsenal of technical tools within the Harmonic Trading approach, and enhance the ability of
existing strategies to effectively decipher price action and define profitable opportunities.
In conclusion, it’s important to understand the state of the major indices relative to any other
market that you might be trading.It is essential to have a solid understanding regarding the
state of the predominant trend and to be able to determine the potential critical turning points in
the markets.In essence, the ability to understand and to interpret “the big picture”of the overall
technical condition of any market is an essential aspect of successful trading.With the tools
within the Harmonic Trading approach, it is possible to decipher the relative state of price action
within any market.But it is essential to consistently analyze all markets within the framework of
the Harmonic Trading methodology, as this will provide the clearest of signals regarding the
state of future potential price action.

Chapter 2
Harmonic Impulse Waves
Harmonic Ratio Progression
Regardless of the methodology that is employed to analyze trading opportunities, it is critical to
have some type of framework to assess price action and to establish limits.Most technical tools
utilize some type of numeric limits to establish discerning levels that categorize price action.
One of the earliest of technical approaches, Dow Theory employs basic 1⁄3 percentages in its
approximation of price movements.Although such approximation does not represent exact
measures for real trading purposes, they serve as an effective means of gauging various
technical levels of price action.In the same manner, the gamut of harmonic ratios serves as a
framework of potential areas of support and resistance.It can be argued that standard
fractional percentages could be utilized in the place of harmonic ratios and be as effective to
analyze price action.However, the application of the primary harmonic ratios—the 0.618 and
the 1.618—along with their respective derivations are the primary means of defining harmonic
price action.
As I discussed in Harmonic Trading:Volume One, the ability of these measurements to be
effective technical tools is founded in the notion of the Principle of Harmonicity.J.M.Hurst
defined this technical phenomenon as:
“The periods of neighboring waves in price action tend to be
related by a small whole number.”
(J .M.Hurst Cycles Course [Greenville, SC:Traders Press, 1973]).
However, in Volume One, I adapted this notion to replace “a small whole number”with
“harmonic ratios.”Again, the 0.618 and the 1.618 ratios serve as the primary basis for all
measurements, since they are directly related to the Fibonacci sequence.Although I explained
the technical phenomenon of harmonic ratios in Volume One, the relative measurement ability
of these ratios is the primary strength of this approach.It is true that the essence of Harmonic
Trading is founded in the combination of these ratios as the most effective means to analyze
price action.But, simple retracements and extensions can serve as an effective general
approach to measure price action.
55

56 Harmonic Trading: Volume Two
This framework of harmonic ratios represents the basic model to analyze harmonic behavior
for all measurable price moves.Of course, the entire series of retracements and extensions
cannot be applied to every situation.However, this illustration is typically best applied to the
largest price leg within the time frame analyzed.Regardless of the time interval, this spread of
ratios represents the fundamental framework that most effectively categorizes price action
relative to the prior dominant price leg.
Bullish Harmonic Ratio Progression
B
0.382
0.50
0.618
0.707
0.786
0.886
1.0
A
1.13
1.27
1.41
1.618
2.0
2.24
2.618
3.14
3.618
C
Figure 2.1

Chapter 2 Harmonic Impulse Waves 57
Bearish Harmonic Ratio Progression
C
3.618
3.14
2.618
2.24
2.0
1.618
1.41
1.27
1.13
A 1.0
0.886
0.786
0.707
0.618
0.50
0.382
B
Figure 2.2
Harmonic Impulse Waves
Harmonic impulse waves are unique price movements that exhibit specific ratios that can be
extreme and temporary in nature.Harmonic impulse waves respond to specific ratios and
establish the initial price legs of complex patterns.Although these formations typically possess
only three simple harmonic ratio points, they offer reliable and consistent indications of future
price action.In much the same manner that complex patterns define areas of potential support
and resistance, harmonic impulse waves can provide a great deal of technical information and
can signal trade opportunities.Furthermore, these structures should possess distinct symmetry
and adhere to specific harmonic ratios as complex patterns do.Although there are many
harmonic impulse structures that can be defined, the following represent the most reliable
combinations of distinct price waves with specific ratios that yield the most relevant technical
information.

58 Harmonic Trading: Volume Two
1.13 Extension—The Failed Wave
Although I refer to the 1.13 extension as “The Failed Wave,”the name aptly refers to the true
nature of the price structure.The 1.13 extension usually represents a failed breakout or
breakdown of an established prior resistance or support point, respectively.The 1.13
harmonic ratio is the inverse of the 0.886.As I discussed in the Harmonic Trading:Volume One,
the 0.886 retracement is a relatively new discovery within the technical community.The 0.886
retracement has gained enormous acceptance and is now widely cited.The inverse of the
0.886 retracement—the 1.13 harmonic ratio—is not as well known, but it is as effective when
applied to specific situations.For example, the 1.13 ratio represents a critical aspect of the
RSI BAMM, and it serves as a complementary measurement within other specific harmonic
structures.
The 1.13 extension frequently represents a make-or-break support or resistance level in
many technical situations, and it can serve to define stop loss limits in real trading scenarios.
Before I integrated this measurement into my trading plan, I frequently executed trades that
were retesting a critical high resistance level or low support point only to have the trade violate
the target area, trigger a stop limit for a loss, and have the position reverse shortly thereafter.It
seemed that these whipsawed shakeouts reversed as soon as I covered the position.I realized
that the true validity of these trades required a more consistent level that defined a pattern’s
violation from a harmonic perspective.After I applied the 1.13 as a defining stop loss limit, the
price area that marked a pattern’s ultimate validation was clearly defined.In particular, this
integration resulted in an advancement of the 1.13 extension within the Bat pattern, leading to
the discovery of the Alternate Bat structure.
The simple 1.13 extension represents a critical level in confirming breakouts and
breakdowns, as well.It has been my experience that price action that exceeds a critical 1.13
extension level frequently will continue farther to the 1.27 or 1.618 areas.Although this is a
broad generalization, the rule of thumb serves to guide trading decisions within the framework
of the progression of harmonic ratios.In the case of the 1.13, the failed aspect of the price
structure in valid reversals reflects a seemingly false move in the primary trend’s direction
before dramatically changing course.Typically, such price action is associated with the final
wave of either a corrective structure or a complex formation that reverses at the 1.13 projected
extension of the prior move.In fact, I believe that this can be one of the most frustrating trading
situations possible.However, the 1.13 serves as an effective defining limit in many of these
cases.
In a real trading situation, this type of action can make you feel as if trading is not fair.
Despite such injustice, these situations can be defined and handled properly when placed in
the proper context.It is important to understand that such shakeouts manifest similar technical
conditions as harmonic patterns to help identify these situations.Let’s examine a few situations
and the conditions that signal such potential price action.

Chapter 2 Harmonic Impulse Waves 59
Bullish 1.13 Extension—The Failed Wave
A simple bullish 1.13 extension is usually preceded by an extended down leg that experiences
a quick bounce, only to roll over yet again slightly under the prior low.Although this may be a
difficult structure to identify at first, price action in these circumstances is typically void of any
distinct harmonic pattern and possesses more of a line segment character.In particular, as the
AB price leg completes and begins to decline to the C point, the price action typically will
adhere to the general structure (shown in Figure 2.3) and move decisively to the final
completion point at the 1.13 extension.As Figure 2.3 demonstrates, the price action quickly
violates the initial low point (A) and reverses decidedly thereafter in valid situations.
A
X
1.13
B
Figure 2.3

60 Harmonic Trading: Volume Two
Google (GOOG): 5-Minute
Bullish 1.13 Extension
In the example illustrated in Figure 2.4, Google possessed a sharp decline after the open of
trading.The stock completed a final intra-day sell off at a distinct 5-minute 1.13 extension at
492.This type of price action is common for reversals in many short-term trading situations.
Although it might have been difficult to buy the stock simply from the 1.13 extension area, in
conjunction with larger harmonic setups or other important technical levels, this type of price
action can help identify significant opportunities that are in the final phases of their decline.
0
B
A 1.13
C
Figure 2.4

Chapter 2 Harmonic Impulse Waves 61
Bearish 1.13 Extension—The Failed Wave
A simple bearish 1.13 extension is usually preceded by an extended rally that experiences a
quick reaction near the peak and reverses sharply after nominally exceeding the prior high
(see Figure 2.5).In many cases, this type of price action is typically void of any distinct
harmonic pattern structure and possesses more the character of a simple line segment.
B
1.13
X
A
Figure 2.5
In particular, after the AB price leg completes and begins to rally to the C point, the price
action typically will adhere to the linear structure and move decisively to the final completion
point at the 1.13 extension.As Figure 2.5 demonstrates, the price action usually violates the
initial high point (A) and reverses shortly thereafter.

62 Harmonic Trading: Volume Two
Eurodollar (EUR_A0-FX): Daily
Bearish 1.13 Extension
The daily chart of the Euro in Figure 2.6 shows a distinct bearish 1.13 extension that failed to
continue higher.In fact, it marked a temporary top for the market in late 2009.
C
1 . 1 3
A
B
Figure 2.6
This is an excellent example because it clearly represents the nature of the 1.13 extension
as a failed breakout.In this case, the index reversed a few points above the completion of the
extension.Furthermore, the price action rolled over quickly and declined shortly after testing
this critical resistance.The lack of continuation just above the prior peak at the 1.13 extension
was indicative of a trend that is not going to continue.Situations like these underscore the
importance of the 1.13 extension in defining critical potential resistance.

Chapter 2 Harmonic Impulse Waves 63
Extreme Bullish Harmonic Impulse Wave
The Bullish Harmonic Impulse Wave is a distinct structure that possesses several harmonic
ratios.The structure typically can be the precursor to the 5-0 pattern, and it commonly forms as
the down leg following a failed rally.In particular, the AB segment takes the shape of a failed
harmonic impulse wave that can possess a range of ratios from a 1.13 extension to a 1.618
extension (see Figure 2.7).
B
1 . 1 3 ;
X
8
1
6
1 .
A 1
.
6
1
8
-
2
.
2
4
0
C
Figure 2.7
The first half of the structure is typically distinct, and it possesses price action that reverses
precisely at each harmonic ratio.The final decline to the C point is typically a sharp move that
is a 1.618–2.24 extension of the AB leg.One of the reasons for this type of price action is due
to the preceding AB price leg that is usually a failed continuation of the prior extended 0X leg.
Although the conditions for a valid harmonic impulse structure are general, the best situations
are typically distinct and possess ideal price action.

64 Harmonic Trading: Volume Two
Standard and Poor’s 500 December 2009
Mini-Contract (ES_Z9): 60-Minute
Extreme Bullish Harmonic Impulse Wave
This example of the S&P 500 December 2009 mini-contract on the 60-minute chart shows
an ideal situation of an Extreme Harmonic Impulse Wave that possesses a perfect structure
(see Figure 2.8).
C
1.13
A
1.
6
1
8
B
Figure 2.8
The prior Bearish 1.13 extension established the structure, as a sharp reversal following the
failed breakout resulted in an extended decline.In this case, the ES mini-contract sold off to
the short-term 1.618 extension of that failed 1.13 breakout attempt and reversed exactly at this
level.

Chapter 2 Harmonic Impulse Waves 65
Extreme Bearish Harmonic Impulse Wave
The Extreme Bearish Harmonic Impulse Wave is a distinct structure that requires a few
essential elements to validate the structure.After an extended decline (0-X), the price action
typically experiences a brief consolidation that results in a nominal new low.This consolidation
area (X, A, B) is followed by an extended rally to at least the 1.618 AB extension area, as
illustrated in Figure 2.9.
C
4
2
0 2 .
-
8
1
6
1 .
A
1.
1
3-
X
1.
6
1
8 B
Figure 2.9
This BC segment rally is the most important aspect of the structure, as it manifests the
extreme and impulsive nature of the setup.In fact, these structures frequently form within many
defined bearish channels, and they can offer excellent opportunities to sell overextended rallies
that are counter to the primary trend.

66 Harmonic Trading: Volume Two
Light Sweet Crude March 2006 Contract (CL_H0):
15-Minute
Extreme Bearish Harmonic Impulse Wave
The nature of the Extreme Bearish Harmonic Impulse Wave is exemplified in the chart in Figure
2.10.The 2010 March Crude Oil contract was declining steadily on the 15-minute chart until it
rallied sharply to form the Extreme Bearish Harmonic Impulse Wave.The price action bounced
quickly to test the intra-day 1.618 impulse extension.
C
8
1
6
1 .
A
B
Figure 2.10
The price action reversed quickly after testing the impulsive extension and continued lower,
as the predominant downtrend squashed the brief rally.Situations like these develop frequently
on intra-day charts, and they can identify excellent opportunities to take advantage of
overextended short-term rallies within established downtrends.

Chapter 2 Harmonic Impulse Waves 67
Extreme Bullish Harmonic Impulse Wave @ 0.886
Retracement
The Extreme Bullish Harmonic Impulse Wave at an 0.886 retracement, illustrated in Figure
2.11, is a special situation that combines two critical harmonic measurements to define the
trade opportunity.The combination of the 0.886 support with the extreme impulse extension
frequently provides a brief reversal in most cases.This initial reaction provides many short-term
trades at a minimum.
B
1 . 1 3 ;
X
1 . 6 1 8
1
.
A 6
1
8
-
2
.
2
4
C
0
Figure 2.11
The structure represents a unique test of a critical prior support point.Although the bullish
0.886 retracement is a powerful potential support point on its own, an Extreme Bullish
Harmonic Impulse Wave that possesses at least a 1.618 extension provides a short-term
technical phenomenon that produces many reliable setups.It is important to note that many of
these situations result in only brief reversals and require decisive continuation following the
completion of the setup to signal a larger move at hand.But this unique structure can offer
many profitable opportunities, as long as the trade is executed on the initial test of these
harmonic numbers and the management of the position is handled tightly.Furthermore,
reversals in these situations require an aggressive profit-taking approach, since many of these
reactions are sharp but brief rallies.

68 Harmonic Trading: Volume Two
AMEX Gas and Oil Exchange ($XOI): Daily
Extreme Bullish Harmonic Impulse Wave @ 0.886
Retracement
This example of the XOI possessed all the ideal elements to validate the Extreme Bullish
Harmonic Impulse Wave at an 0.886 retracement (see Figure 2.12).The failed rally of the AB
leg preceded the sharp decline that resulted in a convergence of the 2.0 Bullish Harmonic
Impulse Wave extension and the 0.886 retracement.
B
7
2
1 .
X
A
2.
0
0.886 C
0
Figure 2.12
The structure defined a precise area at 1030 for a short-term bounce at a minimum.In fact,
both of these critical harmonic measurements completed within two points of each other.
Although the price action required a secondary test of the PRZ, the decisive continuation
following the completion of the structure clearly indicated a strong rally at hand.

Chapter 2 Harmonic Impulse Waves 69
Bearish Harmonic Impulse Wave @ 0.886 Retracement
The Extreme Bearish Harmonic Impulse Wave at an 0.886 retracement, illustrated in Figure
2.13, is a special situation that combines two critical harmonic measurements to define the
trade opportunity.The combination of the 0.886 resistance with the extreme impulse extension
frequently provides a tradeable, short-term opportunity at a minimum.
0
C
0.886
4
2
2 .
-
8
1
6
1 .
A
1.
1
3-
X
1.
6
1
8
B
Figure 2.13

70 Harmonic Trading: Volume Two
Philadelphia Gold and Silver Index (^XAU): Daily
Bearish Harmonic Impulse Wave @ 0.886 Retracement
The next example of the XAU—Philadelphia Gold and Silver Index—shows an ideal Bearish
Harmonic Impulse Wave at an 0.886 retracement (see Figure 2.14).In fact, the impulsive
nature of the AB leg and the extended BC leg manifested the ideal elements that the structure
should possess—a sharp rally that converges with a distinct 0.886 retracement.This creates a
unique technical situation that defines a precise PRZ of harmonic resistance.
0
0.886 C
4
2
.
2
A
X
1.
2
7 B
Figure 2.14

Chapter 2 Harmonic Impulse Waves 71
Harmonic Impulse Waves Conclusion
Although many Harmonic Impulse Waves are merely the precursor of complex patterns, these
formations can be defined well in advance to define profitable short-term trading opportunities.
Furthermore, the identification of these structures helps to classify price action within an
expected technical framework that adheres to specific ratios.The understanding of harmonic
structures like these helps to decipher price action more precisely and to define the potential
future trend direction more accurately.The minimum 1.618 extension requirement is an
important technical aspect of the structure and helps to differentiate this setup from other
invalid candidates.Although Harmonic Impulse Waves are not the same as the traditional
M-type and W-type structures, they serve to distinguish random price moves and refine
harmonic price action even more clearly.

This page intentionally left blank

Chapter 3
New Harmonic Patterns
The 5-0 Pattern
Although I have been aware of the structure for quite some time, the 5-0 pattern is a relatively
new discovery within the Harmonic Trading approach.I have studied thousands of cases to
define the best 5-0 structures.Although I will not cover execution or trade management
strategies, the principles are the same as for all harmonic patterns and can be found in
Harmonic Trading:Volume One.Although this new pattern possesses many characteristics that
are consistent with all harmonic structures, several traits truly differentiate it from the rest.
The 5-0 pattern is a unique structure that possesses a precise alignment of Fibonacci ratios
to validate the structure.Although the 5-0 is considered a retracement pattern, as the 50%
retracement is the most critical number within the Potential Reversal Zone (PRZ), the
measurements of the various price legs are slightly different than the Bat or the Gartley.The
5-0 is within the family of 5-point harmonic price structures.However, the required B point
alignment for other patterns does not apply in the case of the 5-0.Rather, the 5-0 requires a
minimum Extreme Harmonic Impulse Wave of at least 1.618—but not to exceed 2.24—at the C
point to distinguish the setup.In addition, the 5-0 requires a Reciprocal AB=CD measurement
to define the pattern’s completion.
The basic premise of the pattern is to identify distinct reactions following the completion of a
contrary trend.Valid 5-0 patterns typically represent the first pullback of a significant trend
reversal.In many instances, the AB leg of the structure is a failed final wave of an extended
trend.Within Elliott Wave terms, the AB leg may be a failed wave 3 of a corrective “abc”or a
failed wave 5 of an entire completed trend.Although these are obvious similarities, from the
Harmonic Trading perspective, it is important to examine the structure via its relative Fibonacci
measurements to satisfy the pattern requirements.The 5-0 is an incredibly precise pattern that
possesses only two numbers—the 50% retracement of the BC leg and the Reciprocal AB=CD.
It is important to note that the measurements utilized to define the PRZ are different from all
other harmonic patterns in two distinct ways:the structural completion point of the final leg and
the calculation of the AB=CD pattern.
73

74 Harmonic Trading: Volume Two
50% BC Projection Defines the Pattern’s Completion
Point
In most cases, the XA leg is the defining measurement of the pattern’s completion, while the
BC projection is normally a complementary number.In contrast, the 5-0 pattern utilizes the
50% BC retracement as the defining limit in the setup.
Reciprocal AB=CD
A Reciprocal AB=CD pattern is typically a shorter countermove of equal length within a longer
trend.Each price segment is distinct and forms a structure that looks like a lazy “Z”or “S.”The
pattern resembles an Elliott Wave Zig-Zag structure but is distinguished by the assigned
Fibonacci ratios.
Bullish Reciprocal AB=CD
The Bullish Reciprocal AB=CD possesses price segments that are equivalent and typically form
a structure that marks the continuation of the primary trend (see Figure 3.1).Although I will
discuss Reciprocal AB=CD patterns within well-established bullish channels later in the book,
the structure works best in these situations.
C
;
3
1
.
1
8
1
6
.
3
D
A
;
2
8
3
.
0
6
8
8
.
0
B
Figure 3.1

Chapter 3 New Harmonic Patterns 75
It is important to remember that the Reciprocal AB=CD is more of an approximation
measurement that quantifies the general area where the primary trend will continue.In many
situations, the AB leg of the Bullish Reciprocal AB=CD is normally the first corrective move in a
newly established a trend.Although the CD leg will at least test the equivalent completion point
in most cases, the PRZ of the Reciprocal AB=CD is not as precise as the regular bullish
AB=CD pattern.
Fedex Corp. (FDX): Weekly
Bullish Reciprocal AB=CD
The chart of Fedex Corp.illustrated in Figure 3.2 exemplifies the concept of a Bullish
Reciprocal AB=CD, as the AB leg was the first corrective move within a longer-term bullish
channel on the weekly chart.The stock reversed sharply after testing the equivalent CD leg that
was approximately 15 points.The completion of the Reciprocal AB=CD was projected at 44.50,
and it was complemented by the 0.618 weekly reciprocal retracement at 43.95.It is important
to note that the reciprocal retracement was established by the prior 1.618 AB projection, and it
triggered the corresponding completion of the CD leg at the 0.618 retracement.
C
1 . 6 1 8
A
8
1
0 . 6 D
B
Figure 3.2

76 Harmonic Trading: Volume Two
This weekly chart clearly exemplifies the ideal structure of the Reciprocal AB=CD pattern.
Again, it is important to look for patterns that utilize a clear prior corrective move early within
the newly established bullish trend.FedEx possessed a sharp pattern on this weekly chart over
the course of two years.The strong reversal precisely at the PRZ was a clear indication that the
new bullish trend was about to resume.Patterns such as these form on weekly, daily, and intra-
day charts in the same fashion.
Bearish Reciprocal AB=CD
In the same manner as the bullish version, the Bearish Reciprocal AB=CD, illustrated in Figure
3.3, must possess a distinct structure.Again, the AB leg is typically the first corrective move
within a new downtrend.Although the projected completion represents a general approximation
of the continuation of the primary trend, the price action in this area will reverse shortly after
testing the entire zone in the valid setups.
B
0.
3
8
2;
0.
8
8
6
D
A
1.
1
3;
3.
6
1
8
C
Figure 3.3
The CD leg is equivalent and completes at the reciprocal retracement of AB.It is important
to be mindful of the reciprocal ratios established by the AB projection.For example, a C point
extension of a 1.618 will correspond to an approximate 0.618 AB retracement at the D point.In
combination with the reciprocal AB=CD completion point, the reciprocal ratio serves to confirm
the potential resistance of the pattern.

Chapter 3 New Harmonic Patterns 77
Baker-Hughes (BHI): Weekly
Bearish Reciprocal AB=CD
Baker-Hughes formed this distinct Bearish Reciprocal AB=CD that possessed a distinct AB leg
(see Figure 3.4).Although the CD leg was slightly longer than the 26-point AB leg, the 70.7%
Reciprocal Retracement Ratio served to confirm the area near the completion point of the
pattern as important short-term resistance.
B
0.
7
0
7
D
A
1.
4
1
4
C
Figure 3.4
Again, it is important to remember that the completion point of the pattern represents a
minimum approximation of potential harmonic resistance.Therefore, the reciprocal ratio is
important in these situations to confirm the completion point.

78 Harmonic Trading: Volume Two
Basic 5-0 Requirements
Although the pattern incorporates 5 points within the structure (X, A, B, C, D), the initial price
leg (0) can start from the beginning of any extended price move.However, the initial point (X)
must possess a specific alignment with respect to the A and B point.The X, A, B formation of
the structure is usually some type of Extreme Harmonic Impulse move.The XA projection that
defines the B point ideally must not exceed a 2.24.Any extension greater than a 2.24 will
negate the structure, as smaller impulse moves are preferred.Again, this is the failed wave 3 or
wave 5—in Elliott Wave terms—that establishes the rest of the structure.
• Look for initial impulsive reversal at X,A,B points that possesses a 1.13-1.618
extension.
• The AB projection must possess a minimum 1.618 extension at the C point but
not exceed 2.24.
• The D point is defined by the 50% BC retracement and the Reciprocal AB=CD
pattern completion.
The BC leg is the longest price length of the structure that must be at least a 1.618
extension of the AB length, but it must not exceed 2.24.This tight range of 1.618–2.24 is a
defining element of the structure.If the 1.618 AB minimum extension is not reached, the
structure is not a valid 5-0.After the BC leg has reversed from that zone, the 50% retracement
is measured from the B point to the C point.In addition, the Reciprocal AB=CD is projected
from the C point (an equivalent length of the AB leg) to complement the PRZ.
Although the 5-0 pattern is not a typical M- or W-type price structure, the same principles
within the Harmonic Trading approach are applied to these situations.The Reciprocal AB=CD
helps define the general area, while the 50% retracement pinpoints the precise range of the
harmonic zone.The following illustrations and examples will clearly explain these concepts.

Chapter 3 New Harmonic Patterns 79
The Bullish 5-0 Pattern
The Bullish 5-0, illustrated in Figure 3.5, starts at the 0 point, representing an extended down
leg to begin the pattern at X.The initial point (X) acts as the low of this prior substantial decline.
After a quick reactive bounce to the A point, the structure abruptly continues the decline, only
to find support slightly past the prior low at X.This is the failed wave 3 or wave 5—in Elliott
Wave terms—that establishes the rest of the structure.
C
4
0 2
2 .
-
8
1
6
1 .
A
D
0
5
0 .
1.
1
3-
X
1.
6
1
8
B
Figure 3.5
The important limits from a Harmonic Trading perspective require that this X, A extension be
at least a 1.13 but not greater than a 1.618.After that impulsive failed wave is established, the
BC leg rallies to at least a 1.618 extension of the AB length, but it does not exceed 2.24.
Again, this tight range of 1.618–2.24 is a defining element of the structure.If the 1.618 limit
is not reached, the structure is not a valid 5-0.After the BC leg has reversed from that zone,
the bullish 50% retracement is measured from the B point to the C point.In addition, the
Reciprocal AB=CD is projected from the C point (an equivalent length of the AB leg) to
complement the PRZ.It will take some time to identify this structure, but the obvious
characteristic is the failed down wave followed by a precise 1.618–2.24 extension.At that point,
it is important to calculate the 50% retracement level with the Reciprocal AB=CD and study the
price action in the PRZ.

80 Harmonic Trading: Volume Two
Eurodollar (EUR_A0-FX): 5-Minute
Bullish 5-0 Pattern
This chart of the Euro demonstrates the effectiveness of the pattern in shorter-term situations
(see Figure 3.6).After declining steadily throughout the previous day, the price action
completed a failed down wave that nominally took out the prior session’s low before rallying
sharply to the 1.618 projection of the AB leg.
C
0
8
1
6
1 .
A
D
0
5
X 0.
1
.
6
1
8
B
Figure 3.6
The Euro rolled over to retest the 50% level before resuming the uptrend.The Reciprocal
AB=CD complemented the 50% retracement at the 1.3910 level, defining a precise area to
get long.

Chapter 3 New Harmonic Patterns 81
Standard & Poor’s 500 Trust (SPY): Daily
Bullish 5-0 Pattern
This chart of the S&P 500 Spider is another example of an ideal Bullish 5-0 pattern (see Figure
3.7).On this daily chart example, the SPY ETF possessed a distinct Bullish 5-0 pattern that
exemplifies the ideal nature of the pattern.
C
0
2.
0
A
D
0
5
0.
1.
X 2 7
B
Figure 3.7
Starting with an impulsive AB leg with a 1.13 extension, the ETF formed an ideal extended
BC leg that reversed at the 2.0 projection of AB.The price action reversed sharply after testing
the PRZ of the pattern.

82 Harmonic Trading: Volume Two
NASDAQ 100 March 2010 Mini-Contract (NQ_H0):
60-Minute
Bullish 5-0 Pattern
Figure 3.8 shows a distinct 5-0 pattern on the 60-minute chart that reversed sharply after
testing the entire PRZ.
C
0
0
2 .
D
A
0
5
0.
X
B
Figure 3.8
This chart is remarkable due to the pattern pinpointed the intraday support.The price action
formed the proper alignment of ratios for the structure, stabilized in the PRZ, and reversed
immediately after testing the completion point of the pattern.These characteristics are the ideal
signs of a valid reversal for any timeframe.The key is to focus on the price action following the
completion of the pattern.

Chapter 3 New Harmonic Patterns 83
Standard & Poor’s 500 June 2009 Mini-Contract
(ES_M9): 15-Minute
Bullish 5-0 Pattern
This chart of the ES was illustrated in advance (see Figure 3.9).The structure was distinct, and
the 50% retracement was calculated at 936.In addition, the Reciprocal Bullish AB=CD was
projected to complete in the same area.
C
0
0
.
2
D
A
0
5
.
0
X
1.
2
7
B
Figure 3.9
This 60-minute chart exemplifies the ideal structure for the 5-0, especially with the distinct
2.0 impulse projection.Like a magnet, the price action steadily declined to the 50% level of that
extreme extension to complete the pattern.The chart in Figure 3.10 shows the price action, as
the ES approached the PRZ at 1113.

84 Harmonic Trading: Volume Two
Standard and Poor’s 500 June 2009 Mini-Contract
(ES_M9): 15-Minute
Bullish 5-0 Pattern Potential Reversal Zone (PRZ)
The black line represents the Bullish Reciprocal AB=CD completion point, and it converges at
the same level as the 50% retracement.After a sharp decline into the PRZ, the price action
was able to stabilize.After some consolidation, the ES held its ground above the initial test of
the completion point.
D
Figure 3.10
This is an excellent example that possessed ideal price action in a reversal from a valid
Bullish 5-0.The structure was distinct, the alignment of Fibonacci numbers was satisfactory,
and the price action reversed precisely in the zone.Although it will take time to identify these
situations, 5-0 opportunities like these occur frequently in the financial markets.Although a
“clean”reversal from a single test of a PRZ is ideal, it is more common for price action to retest
this pivot area a second or even multiple times before reversing significantly.

Chapter 3 New Harmonic Patterns 85
Bullish ab=cd within CD Leg of 5-0 Pattern
Although the 5-0 pattern requires only two harmonic numbers to define the PRZ, there are
many situations where a smaller ab=cd pattern will form in the CD leg of the Reciprocal
AB=CD (see Figure 3.11).These are unique situations because the ab=cd is usually distinct,
and their structures can be effective in complementing the other numbers of the 5-0 pattern.
C
a
0
4 c
2
2 .
-
8
1
6
1 .
b
A
d
D
1.
1 0
3- 5
0 .
X
1.
6
1
8
B
Figure 3.11
Although the other numbers in the pattern are more significant in defining the completion of
the setup, the smaller ab=cd acts as an effective structural signal that validates many
successful reversals.Furthermore, I believe that a Bullish 5-0 with a smaller ab=cd is a
technically more significant harmonic structure than a pattern without one.

86 Harmonic Trading: Volume Two
Japanese Yen (JPY_A0-FX): 60-Minute
Bullish 5-0 with Bullish ab=cd
This chart of the Yen shown in Figure 3.12 is an excellent example of multiple AB=CDs
converging at the completion of the 5-0 pattern.Although the completion of the smaller ab=cd
was slightly above the other harmonic numbers, the addition of this pattern helped to confirm
the entire area as a valid PRZ.
C
a
c
0
2.
b
0
D d
A
0
5
0.
X
1
.
2
7
B
Figure 3.12
This example shows an ideal structure that possesses a distinct convergence of the 50%
retracement and the Reciprocal AB=CD completion, as well.In particular, the impulsive 2.0
extension is another aspect of this example that can be found in most valid 5-0 patterns.The
BC leg established the entire structure for the eventual completion at the D point.In addition,
the pattern completed just above the psychological 90-level.Such round numbers can add to
the validity of a setup, especially when they occur within close proximity of a PRZ.

Chapter 3 New Harmonic Patterns 87
Adobe Software (ADBE): Daily
Bullish 5-0 Pattern
The example of Adobe Software shown in Figure 3.13 exhibits an ideal structure that
possessed a distinct combination of harmonic ratios to validate the pattern.Clearly, the initial
AB leg that completed at a 1.13 retracement was the primary clue of a valid structure.After
making a critical low at the $31.50 level (B point), the stock surged to the 2.0 extension.
C
a
0
c
4
2 b
2.
D
d
A
0
5
0.
X
1.13
B
Figure 3.13
Adobe promptly reversed at that extreme impulse extension and formed a distinct Reciprocal
AB=CD that converged with the 50% retracement just under the $38 area.This example
underscores the importance of a distinct structure that ideal 5-0 patterns must possess.

88 Harmonic Trading: Volume Two
The Bearish 5-0 Pattern
The Bearish 5-0, illustrated in Figure 3.14, starts at the 0 point, representing the low of an
extended rally up to the initial point of the pattern at X.The initial point X sets up the failed
breakout area, where the rally from the A point to the B peak, nominally takes out the prior high
at X.Again, this is the failed wave 3 or wave 5—in Elliott Wave terms—that establishes the rest
of the structure.
B
;
3
1
1 .
8
0.
1 5
6 0
1 .
D
A
1
.
6
1
8
;
2
.
2
4
C
Figure 3.14
Remember, this X, A extension must be at least a 1.13 but not greater than a 1.618.After
that impulsive failed wave is established, the BC leg declines to at least a 1.618 extension of
the AB length, but it does not exceed 2.24.Again, this tight range of 1.618–2.24 is a defining
element of the structure.If the 1.618 limit is not reached, the structure is not a valid 5-0.After
the BC leg has reversed from that zone, the bearish 50% retracement is measured from the B
point to the C point.In addition, the Bearish Reciprocal AB=CD is projected from the C point
(an equivalent length of the AB leg) to complement the PRZ.

Chapter 3 New Harmonic Patterns 89
AMEX Oil Index ($XOI): 5-Minute
Bearish 5-0 Pattern
Figure 3.15 is a fantastic intra-day example of a Bearish 5-0 structure that possessed the ideal
Fibonacci alignment to validate the pattern.After a long rally, the index made an initial peak at
the X point, pulled back to point A, and reversed sharply at the B point, establishing the failed
wave of the 5-0 structure.
B
7
2
1 .
X
0.
D
5
0
A
1.
6
1
8
C
0
Figure 3.15
The chart in Figure 3.16 of the price action in the PRZ clearly shows the sharp reversal
following the test of the 50% level.The Bearish Reciprocal AB=CD complemented the 50%
retracement and defined a tight range just above the psychological 1100 level.The $XOI tested
the 50% level and stalled immediately.After completing the Reciprocal AB=CD, it started to
reverse.

90 Harmonic Trading: Volume Two
AMEX Oil Index ($XOI): 5-Minute
Bearish 5-0 Pattern Potential Reversal Zone (PRZ)
It is important to mention the C point on the chart in Figure 3.16.The mandatory 1.618
requirement was met in this case, but it was close.If the C point had not tested the 1.618 or fell
just shy, it would have invalidated the structure.
D
Figure 3.16
Unlike other patterns, the 5-0 allows no discretion outside the prescribed parameters for the
structure.Although such strict application reduces the number of potential trading candidates, it
serves to distinguish the best opportunities.

Chapter 3 New Harmonic Patterns 91
Standard & Poor’s 500 September 2009 Mini-Contract
(ES_U9): 5-Minute
Bearish 5-0 Pattern
This 5-minute chart in the ES shows another ideal intra-day structure with a perfect 50%
retracement, calculated at 1030 with the completion of the Reciprocal Bearish AB=CD slightly
below this level (see Figure 3.17).
B
X
0
.
5
0
A
D
2
.
2
4
0
C
Figure 3.17
The following chart of the price action in the PRZ clearly shows the sharp reversal following
the entire test of the 5-0 resistance (see Figure 3.18).The Bearish Reciprocal AB=CD
complemented the 50% retracement and defined a tight intra-day range.The ES rolled over
sharply after testing the entire range of the harmonic resistance.This example required some
consolidation before reversing, but such situations underscore the importance of waiting for the
entire PRZ to be tested before executing the trade.In this case, the 5-0 pattern pinpointed the
1030 area as the ideal price level for the completion of the setup.

92 Harmonic Trading: Volume Two
Standard & Poor’s 500 September 2009 Mini-Contract
(ES_U9): 5-Minute
Bearish 5-0 Pattern Potential Reversal Zone (PRZ)
This Bearish 5-0 possessed an ideal reversal and downside continuation, which is a common
trait of valid structures (see Figure 3.18).The best trading opportunities usually provide a quick
indication of the validity of the reversal.
D
C
Figure 3.18
In this case, the ES stalled exactly at the entire range harmonic numbers and rolled over
shortly thereafter.Again, this example demonstrates the importance of waiting for the entire
range to be tested before executing the trade.Despite the brief consolidation required to
resolve the setup, the 5-0 pattern accurately pinpointed the intra-day reversal.Whether it’s a
1-minute, 5-minute, 60-minute, daily, or weekly chart, the principles remain the same, as clear
opportunities like these will present themselves on all time frames.

Chapter 3 New Harmonic Patterns 93
Dow Jones Industrial Average ($INDU): 1-Minute
Bearish 5-0 Pattern
The 1-minute chart in Figure 3.19 shows a distinct Bearish 5-0 that stalled immediately after
testing the harmonic resistance and reversed precisely at the 10,175 level.Setups such as
these form regularly, as 5-0 patterns can mark important intra-day continuation points.In this
case, the Dow Jones Industrial Average reversed sharply after testing all of the numbers in the
PRZ of this pattern.
B
X 0.
5
0
D
A
1.
6
1
8
0
C
Figure 3.19
The Bearish 5-0 pattern is an excellent harmonic structure that typically possesses a
precise PRZ.Most valid reversals exhibit definitive price action that continues decidedly lower
after testing the entire PRZ.It is important to note that the 50% retracement is typically the
most significant harmonic resistance level within the PRZ.As this 1-minute example of the Dow
Industrials demonstrates, the index reversed quickly after completing the pattern.Clearly, the
5-0 is an effective tool within the Harmonic Trading arsenal, but it is even more accurate when
the structure possesses a smaller ab=cd pattern in the CD leg.

94 Harmonic Trading: Volume Two
Bearish ab=cd within CD Leg of 5-0 Pattern
Although the 5-0 pattern requires only two harmonic numbers to define the PRZ, there are
many situations where a smaller ab=cd pattern will form in the CD leg of the Reciprocal
AB=CD (see Figure 3.20).These are unique situations because the ab=cd is usually distinct,
and the structure can be effective in complementing the other numbers of the 5-0 pattern.
B
;
3
1
.
1
8 0.
1 5
6 0
.
1
D
d
A b
1
.
6
1
8
;
2
.
2
4 c
a
C
Figure 3.20
Although the other numbers of the pattern are more significant in defining the completion of
the setup, the smaller ab=cd acts as an effective structural signal that validates many
successful reversals.Furthermore, I believe that a Bearish 5-0 with a smaller ab=cd is a
technically more significant harmonic structure than a pattern without one.

Chapter 3 New Harmonic Patterns 95
Natural Gas March 2010 Contract (NG_H0): 15-Minute
This 15-minute chart of the March 2010 Natural Gas contract shows a distinct Bearish 5-0 that
possessed a smaller Bearish ab=cd within the CD leg (see Figure 3.21).The addition of the
smaller ab=cd was a key signal that this pattern would yield a valid reversal.
1 . 1 3 B
X
0.
5
0 d
D
A
b
1
.
6
1
c
8
a
C
0
Figure 3.21
The structure was distinct on this 15-minute chart.The sharp reversal precisely at the
completion of the pattern was a clear sign of the strength of this harmonic resistance.The
following chart shows the price action in the PRZ (see Figure 3.22).

96 Harmonic Trading: Volume Two
Natural Gas March 2010 Contract (NG_H0): 15-Minute
Bearish 5-0 Pattern Potential Reversal Zone (PRZ)
The Natural Gas March 2010 Contract reversed immediately after testing all of the numbers in
the PRZ.The Bearish 5-0 possessed four harmonic numbers in a tight range (see Figure 3.22).
The addition of the smaller ab=cd pattern served as an important confirmation point within the
PRZ.Furthermore, the fact that the smaller ab=cd pattern completed above the actual 50%
level helped to indicate that the price action would reverse in the upper range of this area.
d
D
Figure 3.22
It is important to note that the PRZ of the 5-0 pattern should possess a precise reversal
such as the one in this example.In fact, most valid reversals from 5-0 patterns should occur
immediately after the entire zone has been tested.

Chapter 3 New Harmonic Patterns 97
5-0 Pattern Violations
More than any other pattern, the structure of the 5-0 presents a unique opportunity when the
price action violates the PRZ.As with all 5-0 patterns, the best setups depend upon a distinct
alignment of ratios within the structure.Therefore, when attempting to execute a trade based
upon a failed setup, it is still imperative to look at those candidates that possess the most
distinct structures.
Bullish 5-0 Pattern Violations
Despite the failure of the pattern, these situations offer a specific opportunity to execute a trade
that follows the predominant trend.In this case when the 5-0 pattern fails, the price action
typically declines decidedly lower.In many cases, the breakdown in the price action usually
declines to at least the relative 0.886 retracement beyond completion of the pattern.The
illustration in Figure 3.23 shows the ideal PRZ of a 5-0 pattern.
C
D
0
5
.
0
0 . 8 8 6
Figure 3.23
When the 50% retracement area has been exceeded, the breakdown of price action
frequently signals a trade opportunity.It is important to note that the trade opportunity does not
develop until the entire PRZ has been tested and price action has clearly violated the initial
test.Although this is more of a general guideline than a specific rule, the breakdown typically
extends to the 0.886 retracement at a minimum.Regardless of whether the initial starting point
of the 5-0 pattern is violated, this unique technical zone creates an opportunity to sell after this
violation with a minimum target of the imminent 0.886 retracement.

98 Harmonic Trading: Volume Two
General Motors (GM): Daily
Failed Bullish 5-0 Pattern
This daily chart of General Motors clearly demonstrated how a failed Bullish 5-0 pattern led to a
downside continuation to the 0.886 retracement—and beyond (see Figure 3.24).
C
0 2.0
D
A
0
5
.
0
X
1.13
B
Figure 3.24
The distinct structure established this pattern as an excellent potential trade opportunity.
Although GM stabilized initially as it approached the PRZ, the stock eventually declined sharply
after testing the entire range of support and violated the setup.In fact, the failure of this daily
pattern was technically significant, as it marked an acceleration of the long-term downtrend that
eventually resulted in the demise of the company.

Chapter 3 New Harmonic Patterns 99
General Motors (GM): Weekly
Failed Bullish 5-0 Pattern Potential Reversal Zone
(PRZ)
The enlarged chart in Figure 3.25 of the price action in the failed Bullish 5-0 PRZ clearly shows
how the stock declined dramatically after violating the projected harmonic support.
D
Figure 3.25
It is important to study the example of GM because the price action follows a typical
pattern—if you will—when the PRZ is violated.Most violations will experience some type of
nominal reaction on the first test of the PRZ.However, price action that fails to continue to the
upside and clearly lags will typically signal that a failure is imminent.The trigger for the failure
occurs when the PRZ is violated after all the numbers are tested.Although this model can vary
depending upon the situation, the example of General Motors illustrates the ideal situation.

100 Harmonic Trading: Volume Two
Bearish 5-0 Pattern Violation
In much the same manner as the Bullish 5-0 violation, the bearish situation offers a specific
opportunity to execute a trade on the breakout above the PRZ, attempting to capitalize on the
continuation of the predominant trend (see Figure 3.26).In this case, when the 5-0 pattern fails,
the price action typically rallies decidedly higher.In many cases, the breakout in the price
action usually rallies to at least the following 0.886 retracement beyond completion of the
pattern.The next illustration shows an ideal violation of the 5-0 PRZ.
0.886
0
.
5
0
D
C
Figure 3.26
When the 50% retracement area has been exceeded, the breakout above this area is the
decisive signal for the trade.It is important to note that the trade opportunity does not develop
until the entire PRZ has been tested and the price action has clearly violated the initial test.
Although this is more of a general guideline than a specific rule, the breakout typically rallies to
test the 0.886 retracement at a minimum.Regardless of whether the initial starting point of the
5-0 pattern is violated, this unique technical zone creates an opportunity to buy this violation
with a target of the critical 0.886 retracement.

Chapter 3 New Harmonic Patterns 101
Intercontinental Exchange (ICE): Daily
Bearish 5-0 Pattern Violation
After an extended decline, ICE formed a fantastic Bearish 5-0 pattern on the daily chart (see
Figure 3.27).This is another situation where the price action experienced a nominal reaction on
the first test of the PRZ.The stock stalled in this PRZ for a few weeks before breaking out to
the upside.Again, the trigger for the failure occurs when the PRZ is violated on the second test.
In this case, ICE accelerated to the daily 0.886 shortly after violating the pattern.
B
X
0
.
D
5
0
A
2.
0
0
C
Figure 3.27
This example provided a great deal of evidence of the impending failure.Although the stock
pulled back slightly on the initial test of the pattern completion, the price action held firmly in
this area and slowly “drifted”higher.This is another ideal situation where the decisive price
action violated a distinct pattern and marked an important continuation in the predominant
trend of the stock.ICE rallied sharply to the 0.886 and gave a nice 20-point pop within a month
after the pattern violation.

102 Harmonic Trading: Volume Two
Alternate Bat Pattern
The origin of the Alternate Bat pattern resulted from many frustrated failed trades of the
standard framework.The standard Bat pattern is defined by the B point that is less than a
0.618 retracement of the XA leg.Typically, the best structures employ a 50% retracement at the
midpoint.Although there is room for interpretation to incorporate other ratios in the standard
Bat pattern, I began to notice a peculiarity in those M- and W-type structures that possessed a
0.382 retracement or less at the mid-point (B).These variations frequently resulted in an
eventual completion that was slightly beyond the expected 0.886 retracement of the standard
framework.In many cases before I became aware of this alternate alignment, I would execute
trades at the 0.886 retracement only to close the trade for a loss due to the lack of a reversal in
the projected harmonic area.After slightly exceeding the initial point at X of the pattern and
triggering my stop loss, many of these reversals would turn shortly thereafter, usually at the
1.13 extension of the structure.
Again, the defining element of these situations was directly attributed to those M- and
W-type structures that possessed a retracement that was a 0.382 or less at the midpoint.It
took some time to differentiate the structures, but the more I was “whipsawed”by these
patterns the more I realized that further differentiation was required in these cases.Although
the special situations for this pattern will be covered in greater detail later in this material, it is
important to understand that such specification is required to differentiate these similar
structures.It can be frustrating to try to trade these two types of patterns without differentiating
their structures.
Although the Alternate Bat employs a 1.13 XA extension as a defining element of the PRZ,
the 0.886 retracement is still a consideration within this range of harmonic numbers, as it
serves as a minimumrequirement for this pattern to be valid.In essence, the Alternate Bat
typically completes in the area beyond the 0.886 retracement, but it should not exceed the
1.13.In fact, valid reversals in this pattern frequently reverse precisely at this level.The BC
projection is typically an extreme harmonic number that complements the 1.13 extension.
Although the Alternate AB=CD pattern is included in the standard Bat, this PRZ normally
possesses just two harmonic measurements to define the completion of the pattern.In
combination with a minimum 0.886 retracement, the Alternate Bat possesses several critical
structural elements to define excellent trade opportunities.
The Alternate Bat pattern is an extension structure that is mostly utilized in combination with
other technical factors to define specific trading opportunities.I will outline the application of the
Alternate Bat in these situations—in particular, the RSI BAMM.In addition, the structure must
possess the prescribed alignment of ratios to validate the pattern, as this dictates the eventual
execution of the potential trade opportunity.

Chapter 3 New Harmonic Patterns 103
Alternate Bullish Bat Pattern
The Alternate Bullish Bat pattern, illustrated in Figure 3.28, is a specific M-type structure that
utilizes a 1.13 XA extension, as the defining support level in the PRZ.The BC projection utilizes
an extreme harmonic ratio that is at least a 2.0 extension but more frequently appears as a
2.618 or 3.14.
X 0.382;
C
0.886
B
2
.
0
2 ;
8
3 3
.
.
0 6
1
8
1.13
A
D
Figure 3.28
Although the Bullish AB=CD is not included in this setup, the 0.886 retracement serves as a
minimum support level to help define the completion of the pattern, while the convergence of
the 1.13 XA and extreme BC projections pinpoint the PRZ.Again, the 1.13 XA extension should
not be exceeded, as most valid reversals rally shortly after testing this area.

104 Harmonic Trading: Volume Two
Dow Jones Industrials ETF (DIA): Weekly
Alternate Bullish Bat Pattern
In this example, the Dow Diamonds possessed a distinct M-type structure that possessed a
0.382 mid-point (see Figure 3.29).The alignment established the structure as an Alternate Bat
pattern instead of the standard version.
A
C
B
2
8
3
0 . 3
.
6
1
8
1.13
D
X
Figure 3.29
This structure was remarkable due to the size of the pattern.The Diamonds developed over
the course of seven years on this weekly chart.The 1.13 extension marked the critical low of
the 2008 bear market.The convergence of the 1.13 XA and the 3.14 BC projection pinpointed
the long-term support.

Chapter 3 New Harmonic Patterns 105
Eurodollar (EUR_A0-FX): 5-Minute
Alternate Bullish Bat Pattern
The Euro possessed a distinct Alternate Bullish Bat on this intra-day chart that reversed
sharply after testing both numbers that converged in the same exact area to define the PRZ
(see Figure 3.30).This is another case where the structure of the Alternate Bat pattern
indicated a deeper retest of the initial support point and marked the ultimate reversal for the
price action.
A
C
B
2
8
3
.
0
3
.
1
4
1.13
X
D
Figure 3.30
If this unique differentiation did not exist, the execution in this situation would have likely
been stopped out for a loss, as the price action would have violated the 0.886 retracement and
the initial point X before the eventual reversal.However, the 0.382 retracement at the pattern’s
mid-point clearly indicated that the price action would dip slightly below the initial point at X to
the 1.13 extension.

106 Harmonic Trading: Volume Two
Alternate Bearish Bat Pattern
The Alternate Bearish Bat pattern, illustrated in Figure 3.31, is specific W-type structure that
utilizes a 1.13 XA extension, as the defining resistance level in the PRZ.The BC projection
utilizes an extreme harmonic ratio that is at least a 2.0 extension but more frequently appears
as a 2.618 or 3.14.
D
X
1.13
8
1
6
.
3
0
. ;
3 0
8 B .
2
2
0 . 3 8 2 ;
C
0 . 8 8 6
A
Figure 3.31
Although the Bearish AB=CD is not included in this setup, the 0.886 retracement serves as
a minimum resistance level to help define the completion of the pattern, while the convergence
of the 1.13 XA and extreme BC projections pinpoint the PRZ.Again, the 1.13 XA extension
should not be exceeded, as most valid reversals start to decline shortly after testing this area.

Chapter 3 New Harmonic Patterns 107
Eurodollar (EUR_A0-FX): 5-Minute
Alternate Bearish Bat Pattern
This Alternate Bearish Bat in the Euro shown in Figure 3.32 exemplifies the structure of the
pattern.The 0.382 retracement at the midpoint (B) was the indication of an extended 1.13 XA
projection as the defining harmonic resistance level in the PRZ.
D
1.13
X
8
1
6
.
3
0.
3
8
2
B
C
A
Figure 3.32
This is another case where the extreme BC projection effectively complemented the 1.13 XA
extension to define the precise area for the pattern completion and eventual reversal.Both
extensions defined the 1.4440 area as an excellent short-term selling opportunity.

108 Harmonic Trading: Volume Two
Nike (NKE): Daily
Alternate Bearish Bat Pattern
The daily chart in Figure 3.33 shows a distinct Alternate Bearish Bat that reversed decisively
after the stock tested the completion point of the pattern.The W-type structure possessed
two numbers that converged in the same area.Both extensions defined the PRZ as the
make-or-break harmonic resistance.The 0.382 retracement at the mid-point of the pattern
distinguished the setup and indicated a complete retest of the prior peak of the trend.This
structural element defined the upper range of the harmonic resistance and pinpointed the
eventual completion of the setup at the 1.13 XA extension.
D
X
1.13
4
0 . 1
3 3.
8
2
B
A C
Figure 3.33
Although this trade may have been a challenging execution since the stock reversed
immediately after completing the pattern, the 1.13 projection was the optimal entry point for the
short position.The PRZ was clearly defined, as the extreme BC leg complemented this area
just above the initial point at X.Also, this underscores the importance of the 0.886 as a
minimum technical level in the completion of the alternate version of the pattern.Although the

Chapter 3 New Harmonic Patterns 109
price action reversed quickly after hitting the 1.13 XA extension, the differentiation of structures
in situations like these prevents an early entry and helps to optimize trading decisions.In this
case, the ideal entry for the trade was just above the standard Bat PRZ, as the low B-point in
the pattern’s structure indicated an eventual reversal slightly above this area.Although these
two types of Bat patterns appear similar, such understanding and comprehension immensely
improves executions and reduces overall risk by pinpointing reversals as precisely as possible.
New Harmonic Patterns Conclusion
The new patterns presented in this chapter help to further the existing identification strategies
within the Harmonic Trading approach.The 5-0, Reciprocal AB=CD, and the Alternate Bat are
slightly different in structure than the existing array of patterns.Furthermore, these patterns
should be employed only in specialized situations, as they require precise conditions to validate
their structures.
Patterns such as the Alternate Bat continue to underscore the importance of exact
specification within the Harmonic Trading approach.Although the standard version and the
Alternate Bat look similar, the critical differentiation at the pattern’s mid-point clearly identifies
the proper corresponding execution area and filters out many inherently flawed trading
opportunities.In this case, the 1.13 extension dramatically improves the accuracy of the overall
Bat pattern setup.Furthermore, such differentiation broadens the general comprehension of
price action with respect to M- and W-type retracement patterns.
These patterns are among the most precise within the entire Harmonic Trading arsenal.
Although many of these situations require new measurement techniques, the same principles
are still applied to each situation.As is the case with all harmonic patterns, the exact alignment
and precise rules that define each structure is critical in determining the best trading
opportunities.

This page intentionally left blank

Chapter 4
Harmonic Patterns Relative to
the Trend
Patterns with the Trend
When analyzing patterns within a defined trend, it is important to be mindful of the general
principle that all patterns are primarily signposts of potential future price action.Regardless of
what type of pattern may form, a complete structure represents some type of corrective price
action within the context of the larger trend.Such patterns provide clear signals of continuation
points that confirm the predominance of the existing trend.These formations are critical
because they can indicate execution areas within well-established trends that otherwise might
seem futile.
There are many situations where a well-established trend has persisted for such a long time
that a potential opportunity may seem to have passed long ago, only to experience price action
that continues in the predominant direction for a substantially greater move.Many times I have
analyzed a particular chart that possesses a well-defined trend and passed on the potential
opportunity because it seems that I was late in the move.For example, a stock that has rallied
from $10 to $50 a share has increased 500% and may seem to possess limited upside.From a
psychological perspective, it can be difficult to convince yourself that there is a great deal of
further gain only to watch the stock rally from $50 a share to $100 or more.In situations like
these, the formation of complex harmonic patterns within the limits of the established trend can
act as a signpost or signal of a significant continuation at hand.Furthermore, the Potential
Reversal Zone (PRZ) of the pattern within the trend can serve to measure and pinpoint where
these continuation areas complete.
AB=CD Patterns as Continuation Signals within
Established Trend Channels
AB=CD patterns within established channels are typically utilized in conjunction with other
measurement techniques to define the approximate continuation area for the predominant
channel.The simplest structure within established trend channels is an AB=CD pattern.In fact,
many AB=CD patterns serve as a minimum requirement before a trend can continue in its
111

112 Harmonic Trading: Volume Two
predominant direction.Although distinct complex patterns frequently provide more accurate
PRZs, a simple AB=CD pattern in combination with the limits of a trend channel is typically
sufficient enough to define a continuation opportunity.
Bullish AB=CD Patterns as Continuation Signals
within Established Trend Channels
Bullish AB=CD patterns frequently act as a significant continuation signal within the uptrend
channel (see Figure 4.1).In combination with the rising trend line support, the pattern’s
completion serves as a minimum requirement from a harmonic perspective to trigger a long
position within the context of the channel.
a
c
b
A
C
d
B
D
Figure 4.1
Regardless of how far the trend has progressed, a small correction within a larger bullish
move represents an opportunity to execute at the completion of a harmonic pattern with the
power of a strong predominant bias favoring further upside.Quite simply, executing a trade in
such a manner attempts to put “the wind to your back”and to capitalize on the continuation of a
distinct bullish trend.

Chapter 4 Harmonic Patterns Relative to the Trend 113
NASDAQ Composite (^IXIC): Daily
Throughout 2004–2005, the NASDAQ Composite formed three distinct Bullish AB=CD patterns
on the daily chart within the context of the predominant bullish trend (see Figure 4.2).
Figure 4.2
In each case, these daily Bullish AB=CD patterns acted as distinct continuation signals of
the predominant trend.Although the price action nominally exceeded the completion point of
each pattern, the PRZ clearly pinpointed the continuation of the bullish trend.In combination
with the support line of the channel, the completion point of each AB=CD pattern served as an
effective entry point to get long within this long-term trend.

114 Harmonic Trading: Volume Two
NASDAQ Composite (^IXIC): Daily
Bullish AB=CD #1: Completed August 2004
The first Bullish AB=CD pattern completed in August 2004, as shown in Figure 4.3.Although
the price action sold off sharply as it tested the completion point of the pattern, the bullish trend
resumed after briefly exceeding the PRZ.
Figure 4.3

Chapter 4 Harmonic Patterns Relative to the Trend 115
NASDAQ Composite (^IXIC): Daily
Bullish AB=CD #2: Completed April 2005
The second Bullish AB=CD completed in April 2005 and resulted in the continuation of the
primary uptrend (see Figure 4.4).The price action reversed more precisely from the PRZ than
the setup from the prior August, and it rallied significantly higher after completing the pattern.
Figure 4.4

116 Harmonic Trading: Volume Two
NASDAQ Composite (^IXIC): Daily
Bullish AB=CD #3: Completed October 2005
The third Bullish AB=CD pattern within this 18-month time frame completed in October 2005,
as shown in Figure 4.5.The price action exceeded the completion point of the pattern but
reversed quickly after testing the entire PRZ.Moreover, the completion point for the pattern
served as the defining support level for the continuation of the predominant uptrend, as the
price action failed to test the rising channel.Situations such as these underscore the
importance of pattern completions to indicate the continuation of a predominant trend.
Figure 4.5

Chapter 4 Harmonic Patterns Relative to the Trend 117
Bearish AB=CD Patterns within Trend Channels
Bearish AB=CD patterns frequently act as effective continuation signals within established
downtrend channels, as illustrated in Figure 4.6.Also, Bearish AB=CD patterns in combination
with the declining trend resistance serve as a minimum requirement from a Harmonic Trading
perspective to trigger a short position within the context of the channel.
d
b
c D
B
a
C
A
Figure 4.6
Sometimes, these situations may be difficult to execute because the trend has persisted for
quite some time.Although the price action may seem to not have much farther to go, Bearish
AB=CD patterns that materialize in these situations are extremely effective structural signals of
significant trend continuations.

118 Harmonic Trading: Volume Two
Toll Brothers (TOL): Weekly
Bearish AB=CDs
The example ofToll Brothers in Figure 4.7 illustrates the principle of the Bearish AB=CD
pattern acting as a critical continuation signal, regardless of where it develops within the
context of the weekly trend channel.
Figure 4.7
The interesting thing to note about the completion of these patterns is that they occurred
more than halfway from the stock’s all-time peak.Although these patterns completed at the
mid-point of the bearish trend, they were extremely effective in marking the continuation of the
stock’s long-term decline.

Chapter 4 Harmonic Patterns Relative to the Trend 119
Bullish Reciprocal AB=CD Patterns within Trend
Channels
Bullish Reciprocal AB=CD patterns are most effective when they are present within established
uptrend channels.In fact, the AB leg often is the first corrective leg within a new bullish trend
(see Figure 4.8).
C
A
D
B
Figure 4.8
It is important to note that the completion of the Reciprocal AB=CD pattern is more of an
approximation than an exact reversal point.Ideally, it is essential that the CD leg test the
equivalent completion point.However, it is common for the price action to exceed this area
before eventually resuming the predominant uptrend.Although the Reciprocal AB=CD may not
yield as precise a PRZ as other patterns, it is effective as an approximation measure that
complements other technical readings to define important continuations of predominant bullish
trends.

120 Harmonic Trading: Volume Two
Disney (DIS): Daily
Bullish Reciprocal AB=CD Patterns within Trend
Channels
The chart of Disney in Figure 4.9 clearly demonstrates the concept of an approximated
completion point of the Reciprocal AB=CD pattern within the established bullish trend.
EACH CORRECTIVE WAVE = 2 POINTS
C
C
C
D
C
D
D
D
A
B
Figure 4.9
In this case, the stock consistently reversed at two-point corrective declines within this
established bullish channel on the daily chart.Although the stock exceeded the two-point limit,
the price action reversed after briefly exceeding the completion point of the CD leg in each
case.

Chapter 4 Harmonic Patterns Relative to the Trend 121
Bearish Reciprocal AB=CD Patterns within Trend
Channels
In much the same manner as the bullish version, Bearish Reciprocal AB=CD patterns within
established trend channels provide excellent approximation points of corrective moves (see
Figure 4.10).When such repeated corrective price action manifests itself, the estimated
measurement technique is effective as long as the established bearish channel remains intact.
B
D
A
C
Figure 4.10
Well-established bearish channels frequently provide sharp reactions within their respective
downtrend.But it is important to note that the completion of the Reciprocal AB=CD pattern is
more of an approximation than an exact reversal point.Ideally, it is important to see the CD leg
test the equivalent completion point.However, in many cases, the price action exceeds this
area before ultimately resuming the predominant bearish trend.Although the Bearish
Reciprocal AB=CD may not yield as precise a PRZ as other patterns, it is effective as an
approximation measure that complements other technical readings to define important
continuations of predominant bearish trends.

122 Harmonic Trading: Volume Two
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (^GSPC): Weekly
Bearish Reciprocal AB=CD Patterns within Trend
Channels
One of the most interesting aspects of the bear market of 2008 was the continual corrective
rallies within the established downtrend that were approximately 200 points each.The chart in
Figure 4.11 clearly shows the weekly bearish channel that possessed the repeating Reciprocal
AB=CD patterns.
EACH
CORRECTIVE
WAVE =
NEARLY 200
POINTS
Figure 4.11
Beginning with the first corrective wave in 2000 (A), the S&P 500 repeatedly bounced
approximately 200 points each time it tested the lower range of its weekly channel.

Chapter 4 Harmonic Patterns Relative to the Trend 123
Complex Patterns within Trend Channels
There are many cases when complex patterns form within well-established channels, signaling
the continuation of the primary trend.Although many of these patterns do not possess
distinctive high and low points, they are valid structures due to the proper alignment of
harmonic ratios.These situations can sometimes be difficult to analyze because the patterns
that form within the trend channels can seem insignificant.Sometimes, price action that
adheres to the proper alignment to validate a harmonic pattern may even be difficult to see
within the context of the larger trend.But these patterns possess even greater implications
when they are located within the constraints of established trend channels.
There are two types of patterns to consider within channels.Retracement patterns such as
a Gartley or a Bat typically develop in areas of consolidation in conjunction with the constraints
of the channel.Extension patterns such as a Crab, a Butterfly, or an Alternate Bat frequently
possess more extreme price action, as these structures include some type of extension to
validate the setup.In this manner, the predominant trend will possess a few minor yet sharp
corrective moves that will “threaten”the existing channel constraints.

124 Harmonic Trading: Volume Two
Bullish Retracement Patterns within Bullish Trend
Channels
Bullish retracement patterns such as a Gartley or a Bat typically develop in areas of
consolidation in conjunction with the constraints of the channel.Figure 4.12 shows a Bullish
Gartley, but either retracement pattern can be applied to these situations.
A
0.618
C
B 1.
6
1
8 8
1
6
0.
D
0 . 7 8 6
X
Figure 4.12

Chapter 4 Harmonic Patterns Relative to the Trend 125
Chicago Mercantile Exchange (CME): Daily
Bullish Gartley in a Bullish Trend Channel
The first example of the Chicago Mercantile Exchange shows an extended rally on the daily
chart (see Figure 4.13).The Bullish Gartley that formed within this well-established channel
completed several hundred points higher than it was the year prior.
Figure 4.13
This is a case where the pattern may seem to be developing at a point that is too far along
within the bullish trend.Quite simply, since the stock has rallied several hundred points in the
prior year, it might be difficult to believe that this pattern would yield a significant continuation of
the predominant trend.However, the Bullish Gartley did just that, as the stock rallied another
hundred points within a few months after completing this pattern.

126 Harmonic Trading: Volume Two
Chicago Mercantile Exchange (CME): Daily
Bullish Gartley in a Bullish Trend Channel
The enlarged chart in Figure 4.14 of the Bullish Gartley within the uptrend channel clearly
shows a distinct harmonic pattern, despite the fact that the stock rallied as much as it did prior
to this setup completing.
Figure 4.14
The example of CME clearly presents the concept of looking toward harmonic pattern
completions as continuation signals within established trends.In this case, the Bullish Gartley
was distinct and completed at the lower end of the support channel.The price action reversed
sharply after testing all the numbers in the PRZ.When patterns like these develop within the
context of an established bullish trend, these setups frequently are technically significant
signals with respect to the overall direction of the stock.

Chapter 4 Harmonic Patterns Relative to the Trend 127
Bullish Extension Patterns within Bullish Trend
Channels
Bullish extension patterns such as a Crab, a Butterfly, or an Alternate Bat typically possess
more volatile corrective price action yet remain within the constraints of the established
channel.Figure 4.15 illustrates a Bullish Crab, but any of the extension patterns can be applied
to these situations.
C
A
0.786
8
1
6 B
0. 3.
1
4
X
1.618
D
Figure 4.15
Although extension patterns usually encounter more volatile price action, these setups offer
unique trading opportunities.In many of these cases, the PRZ sits just below the lower range of
the bullish channel, often resulting in volatile price action as the pattern completes.

128 Harmonic Trading: Volume Two
British Pound (GBP_A0-FX): 15-Minute
Bullish Crab in a Bullish Trend Channel
The example of the British Pound in Figure 4.16 shows a Bullish Crab that completed just
below the lower range of the trend channel.This pattern exemplifies the potential strength of a
reversal that completes at critical trend channel support.
Figure 4.16
The pattern completed at 1.6325 area, despite the fact that this was a few pips below the
support line of the trend channel.Although this may have seemed as if the channel was going
to break down, the distinct Bullish Crab clearly indicated that the price action was testing a
critical continuation area of the primary trend.

Chapter 4 Harmonic Patterns Relative to the Trend 129
Bearish Complex Patterns within Downtrend Channels
Bearish retracement patterns such as a Gartley or a Bat typically develop in areas of
consolidation in conjunction with the constraints of the primary downtrend channel.When these
patterns complete at or slightly above the upper trend channel line, they present a unique
opportunity to execute trades at the completion of distinct harmonic patterns that have the
benefit of the primary trend complementing the resistance area.
Bearish Complex Retracement Patterns within
Downtrend Channels
Again, bearish retracement patterns such as a Gartley or a Bat typically develop in areas of
consolidation in conjunction with the constraints of the channel.Figure 4.17 illustrates a Bearish
Gartley, but either retracement pattern can be applied to these situations.
X
0.786
D
0.
6
1
8 8
1
B 6
1.
0 . 6 1 8
C
A
Figure 4.17

130 Harmonic Trading: Volume Two
Australian Dollar (AUD_A0-FX): 15-Minute
Bearish Gartley in Bearish Trend Channel
In Figure 4.18, the Aussie $ formed a Bearish Gartley after declining steadily over the previous
few sessions.The price action held firmly within the bearish channel and formed a distinct
pattern that marked the dramatic continuation of the established downtrend.
Figure 4.18
Despite exceeding the top range of the downtrend channel, the price action sold off sharply
after completing the pattern.This example demonstrates the effectiveness of bearish patterns
as critical continuation signals within established channels.In fact, patterns like these that
complete slightly beyond the constraints of the established downtrend frequently can provide
significant reversals.

Chapter 4 Harmonic Patterns Relative to the Trend 131
Bearish Complex Extension Patterns within Bearish
Channels
Bearish extension patterns such as a Crab, a Butterfly, or an Alternate Bat typically possess
more volatile corrective price action yet remain within the constraints of the established
channel.Figure 4.19 illustrates a Bearish Crab, but any of the extension patterns can be
applied to these situations.
D
1 . 6 1 8
X
4
1
3.
B
0.
6
1
8
0 . 7 8 6
C
A
Figure 4.19
Although extension patterns frequently experience more volatile price action, these setups
offer unique trading opportunities.In many of these cases, the PRZ sits just above the upper
range of the bearish channel, often creating volatile price action as the pattern completes.

132 Harmonic Trading: Volume Two
Apple (AAPL): 5-Minute
Deep Bearish Crab Pattern within a Bearish Channel
Apple formed a Deep Bearish Crab within a defined downtrend (see Figure 4.20).In fact, the
stock declined steadily within a defined range that contained the price action before it formed
the pattern that marked the significant continuation.The Deep Bearish Crab that developed at
the top range of this trend channel clearly illustrates the importance of harmonic patterns as
“signposts of future price action.
Figure 4.20
The stock completed the Deep Bearish Crab, as it retested the top range of the channel.
Apple stalled at this resistance and sold off sharply following the reversal.

Chapter 4 Harmonic Patterns Relative to the Trend 133
Apple (AAPL): 5-Minute
Deep Bearish Crab Pattern within a Bearish Channel
The enlarged chart in Figure 4.21 clearly shows the combination of the top range of the
downtrend channel and the pattern’s PRZ converging to define critical harmonic resistance in
the $212 area.Again, this pattern signaled yet another continuation in the persistent bearish
trend on the daily chart.
Figure 4.21
Apple demonstrated the importance of patterns that form in the direction of the trend.
Well-defined trend channels should be clear and confine price action in a precise range.Within
these constraints, patterns can form to signal the strength of the price action and identify
optimal entry points for trade executions that attempt to follow in the direction of the
predominant trend.
Failed Patterns Against the Trend
There are many cases where distinct harmonic patterns form within an established channel but
they are challenged by the predominant trend.For example, a bullish pattern that forms within a
defined bearish trend channel can present a challenging situation from a technical perspective.
If the bullish pattern yields a valid reversal and the price action can rally beyond the downtrend

134 Harmonic Trading: Volume Two
channel, the PRZ would represent a critical support point.However, if the price action
continued to decline and violate the bullish pattern, this area might be regarded as another
continuation of the established downtrend.Again, this is a situation where harmonic patterns
must be regarded as signposts of potential future price action.These setups—whether they fail
or not—are critical make-or-break pattern completions that reveal a vast amount of technical
information within a few price bars of its realization.Although a failed pattern might not yield
the initial desired result of a valid reversal, such price action often signals a significantly
deteriorating technical state of the primary trend and it must be respected.
Bullish Failed Complex Pattern Against the Trend
The overwhelming failure of patterns that act as clear continuation signals was exemplified in
the historical examples of the bear markets of both 2000 and 2008.The violated Monster
Bullish Gartley and the failed weekly Bullish 5-0, respectively, were two historic examples of
this phenomenon.Both situations personally ingrained the significance of these failures for me
as a vital element of the Harmonic Trading approach (see Figure 4.22).Although it is easy to
spot the best examples in hindsight, the importance of such failures must be considered in
real-time situations as opportunities unto themselves.The failure of a pattern’s anticipated
completion commonly indicates that something technically more significant is developing,
especially when the trend is well defined.In fact, these types of continuation trades can yield
decisive moves that offer accelerated declines following brief consolidation periods.
A
C
0.
6
1
8
B
8
1.
1 6
6 1
0. 8
0.786
D
X
Figure 4.22

Chapter 4 Harmonic Patterns Relative to the Trend 135
Standard and Poor’s 500 June 2009 Mini-Contract
(ES_M9): 5-Minute
Bullish Gartley in a Bearish Trend Channel
The intra-daily chart of the S&P 500 June 2009 mini-contract clearly illustrates the concept of a
failed bullish pattern within an established downtrend (see Figure 4.23).In the case the ES, the
price action declined steadily for the entire session before forming the Bullish Gartley.
Figure 4.23
After a brief period of consolidation, the trend continued lower, violated PRZ, and dropped
another 1% after the pattern’s failure.The dramatic sell-off exemplifies the type of accelerated
action that can be expected after a pattern is violated.

136 Harmonic Trading: Volume Two
Standard and Poor’s 500 June 2009 Mini-Contract
(ES_M9): 5-Minute
Bullish Gartley Potential Reversal Zone (PRZ) in a
Bearish Trend Channel
The enlarged chart of the Bullish Gartley PRZ in Figure 4.24 clearly shows the decisive
downside continuation that resulted following the failure of the pattern.
Figure 4.24
This is another case where the obvious failure of a bullish harmonic pattern within the
context of an established downtrend acted as a critical continuation signal.Again, the
continuation signal is triggered in these situations when the price action exceeds the PRZ
and follows through to the downside within a few price bars after the violation.

Chapter 4 Harmonic Patterns Relative to the Trend 137
Failed Bearish Patterns in a Bullish Trend Channel
Failed bearish patterns within an established bullish channel typically signal an important
continuation of the predominant trend.Again, failed harmonic patterns in these situations
underscore their importance as continuation signals.This technical information is usually
critical to the future direction of the price action, as bearish pattern failures within an
established channel can lead to an acceleration of that trend.
Although Figure 4.25 only shows a retracement pattern, the same principles apply to
extension structures.However, Bearish Gartley and Bearish Bat patterns typically yield the
best moves following a decisive failure of their respective PRZ.
X
0.786
D
0.
6 1 2 7
8 1 .
B
0 . 7 8 6 C
A
Figure 4.25

138 Harmonic Trading: Volume Two
Dow Jones Transportation Average ($TRAN): Daily
Failed Bearish Gartley Pattern in a Bullish Trend
Channel
After rallying for quite some time, the Dow Jones Transportation Average formed a distinct
Bearish Gartley within the constraints of an established bullish channel (see Figure 4.26).
Although the pattern yielded an initial reversal, the price action quickly rebounded and rallied
above the PRZ.
Figure 4.26
This example demonstrates how a distinct pattern can define critical technical levels within
an established trend.In this case, the violation of the Bearish Gartley in the Dow Transports
marked an important breakout and upside continuation of the predominant trend.

Chapter 4 Harmonic Patterns Relative to the Trend 139
Dow Jones Transportation Average ($TRAN): Daily
Failed Bearish Gartley Potential Reversal Zone (PRZ)
in a Bullish Trend Channel
The enlarged chart of the pattern’s PRZ in Figure 4.27 shows how the price action reversed
nominally on the initial test of this area.The index consolidated in the PRZ for a short while
before continuing higher.
Figure 4.27
The decisive breakout above the prior harmonic resistance established by the pattern was
the technical entry point within this setup.Although not all failed patterns will possess such
decisive price action, as is the case with the Dow Transports, most valid continuations will
adhere to the predominant bias established by the primary uptrend.

140 Harmonic Trading: Volume Two
Harmonic Patterns Relative to the Trend Conclusion
When analyzing harmonic patterns relative to the trend, it is important to keep in mind the
general principle that patterns are primarily signposts of potential future price action.
Regardless of what type of pattern may form, a completed structure represents some type of
corrective price action within the context of the larger trend and provides significant information
regarding the potential future price direction.
These patterns rely on precise ratio alignments within the constraints of an established trend
to define the potential continuation points.These formations are critical because they can
indicate execution areas within well-established trends that otherwise might be overlooked.
Also, harmonic patterns provide reliable technical signals, regardless of the extent that a trend
has persisted.
Not to be overlooked in its own merit, failed harmonic pattern PRZs define the exact price
level within the overall predominant trend for the entry of a trade.Although a pattern’s
completion may not yield the anticipated result of a change in trend, the price action in this
area will typically offer evidence of the strength of the move well in advance.Furthermore, the
PRZ of a pattern that completes within an established trend can clearly outline the make-or-
break price level for the entry point of a trade.The immediate action after a pattern completes
often can provide an enormous amount of technical information regarding the state of the
future price action unlike any other methodology.
The analysis of harmonic patterns relative to the trend is an important consideration when
looking to execute a trade.Regardless of the time frame, price action has a tendency to adhere
to certain channels.Although this is not the case with all price action, situations that exhibit
defined channels can present clearer trading opportunities, especially when harmonic patterns
are present.

Chapter 5
BAMM Theory
BAMM = Bat Action Magnet Move
BAMMis an abbreviation for Bat Action Magnet Move.The essence of this theory is based
upon the primary tenet of Harmonic Trading that not all patterns are the same, as specific
“technical entities”in the form of harmonic patterns define unique trading situations.In
Harmonic Trading:Volume One, I discussed “The Great Gartley Controversy,”which explains
the importance of exact alignments of Fibonacci ratios with respect to price structures.My
differentiation of similar pattern structures led me to discover the importance of respecting
exact alignments.Specifically, the Bat pattern, which requires a different alignment of Fibonacci
ratios than the general Gartley pattern, consistently guided my trade executions at different
price levels.In doing so, I was able to differentiate price structures and define the best trading
opportunities.
The essence of this argument focuses primarily upon the location of the mid-point (B) within
the pattern structure.In my interpretation of the Gartley, the mid-point is required to occur at a
0.618 retracement of the XA leg.I realized that any B point with a retracement less than a
0.618—specifically a 50% or less retracement—resulted in a completion point that was closer
to the initial starting point at X.This variation became known as the Bat pattern.
With this understanding, I was able to differentiate various M- and W-type price structures
and have a better understanding of the potential future direction of the price action.In the Bat
structure, when the CD leg exceeded the B point, I was confident that the price action would
test the 0.886 retracement of the XA leg.There were many times where I would identify this
situation in advance, watch this phenomenon develop, and see the price action reach this
target.As these situations became more apparent, it dawned on me to begin playing these
moves by capturing the segment of the CD leg instead of waiting for the ultimate completion of
the larger pattern.Like a magnet, the Potential Reversal Zone (PRZ) of the Bat pattern
frequently provided clear direction of where the price action was headed.Hence, the BAMM—
Bat Action Magnet Move—was born.
141

142 Harmonic Trading: Volume Two
The Magnet Effect
One of the greatest experiences with the Harmonic Trading techniques is the first time that you
identify a potential pattern, observe the price action, test the PRZ, and reverse precisely from
that projected area.For many people, this type of experience is when the harmonic lightbulb
turns on.I’ve received numerous e-mails from many people who describe this exact sequence
of events.From that point forward, people tend to never look at the financial markets the same
way again.
But, what is this experience? I remember when I first started to differentiate the various
M- and W-type structures, I became excited the more I was able to differentiate various
harmonic setups.In most cases, I was able to recognize these situations well in advance.For
example, pattern developments in the various major indices in my advisory reports, especially
the S&P 500, were identified months if not more than a year in advance.How was this
possible? Time and time again, there were distinct harmonic patterns forming on many long-
term charts that eventually came to fruition.As I tracked these situations, I realized in all
patterns there was a distinct point where the potential completion of a harmonic pattern would
be triggered.Regardless of the pattern, the price action frequently was drawn to the distinct
harmonic zone.In my opinion, this technical phenomenon was defined by the relative structure
of the overall price action as it entered the final CD leg of the pattern.
Although this phenomenon did not occur in every situation, a majority of these
circumstances where distinct harmonic patterns would develop, enter into the final CD leg, and
ultimately test all of the numbers in the PRZ.Regardless of whether the pattern completion was
valid, the zone from the point the CD leg is triggered until it tests the completion point of the
pattern continually presented a fantastic trading opportunity to capitalize on the predominant
trend and the magnet effect of the harmonic price action.
Harmonic Breakouts and Breakdowns
I soon realized that these situations were unique technical breakouts and breakdowns that
were defined by their relative harmonic ratio alignments.In the same fashion as harmonic
patterns, these structures possessed precise technical conditions to define these unique
situations.Also, these specific harmonic breakouts or breakdowns enabled me to develop
pattern-specific rules for each trading opportunity.After refining the details for these setups, the
execution and the management of these trades became easier to handle.

Chapter 5 BAMM Theory 143
Depending upon the ratio alignment, the trigger of the final leg of the structure occurs when
the price action of the CD segment exceeds the prior B point.Whether the price action is a
breakout or a breakdown, the extent of this move can be projected with a large degree of
certainty as long as the entire structure satisfies all of the necessary elements to validate the
pattern.This classification creates a unique technical situation that requires many conditions to
be valid before triggering a potential trade opportunity.Furthermore, these breakout and
breakdown strategies attempt to capture a small segment of the price action relative to the
larger pattern.Unlike many general technical strategies that attempt to capitalize on breakouts
and breakdowns, this approach employs the advanced pattern identification techniques to
differentiate these situations as unique.It is important to realize that these are special breakout
and breakdown trading strategies that rely on many technical conditions to be present to
validate the opportunity.Therefore, the technical considerations and price parameters are
precisely defined, providing a more detailed framework to assess the trade opportunity.
As I mentioned previously, within the context of Harmonic Trading, the Bat pattern
possessed these technical traits more clearly than any other setup.Time and time again,
I was able to differentiate Bat versus Gartley patterns well in advance.As soon as the CD leg
exceeded the B point, the final segment represented a fantastic opportunity to capitalize on the
predominant trend—at least capturing the segment to the pattern’s completion point.Of course,
the Bat presented a larger zone, as the CD leg extended further beyond the B point, which was
typically a 50% retracement or less, in this pattern and completed at the 0.886.Unlike the
Gartley pattern, which utilized a 0.618 retracement and offered a smaller zone between the B
point and the D point, the Bat became a reliable structure to employ these strategies.Hence,
BAMM—Bat Action Magnet Move—best described this technical phenomenon.Harmonic
breakout or breakdown might be a more appropriate technical term to describe this type of
price action.However, the entire concept is encompassed within the dynamics of the Bat
pattern.

144 Harmonic Trading: Volume Two
Bullish BAMM Breakout
The illustration of the Bearish Bat pattern in Figure 5.1 shows the point where the BAMM is
triggered.Utilizing the Bat pattern illustration, when the B point of a pattern is at a 50% level or
less, the CD leg typically experiences a greater retracement of the XA move to the 0.886 level.
X D
0.886
8
1
6
2.
0
.
8;
3 1 BAMM
8
2
1.6
; TRIGGER
0 B
.
5
0
0.382;
0.886
C
A
Figure 5.1
In the case of the Bearish Bat pattern, when the price action exceeds the B point in a
breakout move, the segment of the CD leg typically extends toward the 0.886 retracement,
which is usually complemented by other harmonic measurements.As a side note, it is
important to point out that the Bearish Bat is utilized in the Bullish BAMM because the
opportunity to get long on the breakout of the B point is striving to capture the segment to the
completion of the pattern at the 0.886 retracement.Also, it is important to note that this
technique typically employs shorter-term trading strategies within the context of a longer-term
pattern.The ultimate goal is to capitalize on those smaller yet higher-probability price moves
within the completion of a much larger pattern.

Chapter 5 BAMM Theory 145
Standard & Poor’s 500 Continuous Contract (ES_#F):
Daily Bullish BAMM Breakout
In May 2006, the continuous mini-contract of the S&P 500 formed a distinct Bearish Bat pattern
that was triggered when the CD leg exceeded the prior B point on its way to test all of the
numbers in the PRZ (see Figure 5.2).
Figure 5.2
As the index rallied above the B point resistance, the price action triggered the BAMM, as
the index decidedly rallied 40 points to close this gap.Clearly, the predominant trend of the
daily action dictated the short-term bullish bias until the pattern was completed.Any intra-day
trades during this time should have favored the long side until the BAMM completed.In this
case, the larger daily trend clearly defined the short-term upside within the constraints of the
pattern.This daily scenario clearly illustrates the BAMM concept and the ability of these
“magnet moves”to decipher price action and define trading opportunities.

146 Harmonic Trading: Volume Two
Bullish BAMM Breakout in the CD Leg
The BAMM phenomenon can be clearly witnessed upon close inspection of the CD leg.As the
price action rallies above the B point, the “magnet effect”begins (see Figure 5.3).
D 0.886
BAMM
TRIGGER
B
0.50
C
Figure 5.3
The most important technical aspect of this breakout is the clear continuation to the upside
after the price action exceeds the B point.The breakout should continue convincingly until it
tests the PRZ.Although not all price action rallies straight to the completion point of the pattern,
the most valid situations exhibit decisive continuation.If not, it is best to cover those positions
that tend to stall after the BAMM is triggered.

Chapter 5 BAMM Theory 147
Standard & Poor’s 500 Continuous Contract (ES_#F):
Daily Bullish BAMM Breakout in the CD Leg
The enlarged chart in Figure 5.4 shows the price action in the CD leg of the Bearish Bat that
exemplifies the ideal bullish continuation necessary to validate these trading opportunities.In
this case, the ES rallied sharply on the harmonic breakout above the prior B point and
proceeded to test the PRZ in a direct “magnet move.”
Figure 5.4
Although the ES experienced a few down days along the way, the price action climbed
steadily in this BAMM zone until all of the numbers in the pattern’s PRZ were tested.This
BAMM breakout defined a precise 40-point zone that was “under the magnet effect of the
pattern.”This clearly identified a bullish bias in this area until the pattern was completed.
Technical information like this can immensely improve trading results, as the understanding of
such harmonic phenomena will consistently identify the predominant market bias and identify
those trades that seek to benefit from the established trend.

148 Harmonic Trading: Volume Two
Bearish BAMM Breakdown
Figure 5.5 illustrates a Bullish Bat pattern that outlines the point where the BAMM is triggered.
Utilizing the Bat pattern illustration, when a B point of a pattern is at a 50% level or less, the
CD leg typically experiences a greater retracement of the XA move to the 0.886 level.
X
C
0.382;
0.886
0
5 B 1.
0. 6 BAMM
;
1
8
2 ; TRIGGER
38 2.
6
0. 1
8
0.886
A D
Figure 5.5
In the case of the Bullish Bat pattern, when the price action exceeds the B point in a
breakdown move, the segment of the CD leg typically extends toward the 0.886 retracement.
The 0.886 retracement is usually complemented by other harmonic measurements that help
define the immediate PRZ.Again, it is important to point out that the Bullish Bat is utilized in
the Bearish BAMM.The opportunity to sell on the breakdown of the B point is striving to
capture the final segment that represents the completion of the pattern at the 0.886
retracement.Also, it is important to note that this technique typically employs shorter-term
trading strategies within the context of a longer-term pattern.The ultimate goal is to capitalize
on those smaller yet higher-probability price moves within the completion of a much larger
pattern.

Chapter 5 BAMM Theory 149
Eurodollar (EUR_A0-FX): Weekly
Bearish BAMM Breakdown
For more than a year, the Euro formed this distinct Bullish Bat that started to break down
sharply after violating the prior B point (see Figure 5.6).The BAMM was triggered when the CD
leg exceeded the prior B point at 1.2750 on its way to test all of the numbers in the PRZ.
Figure 5.6
As the Euro broke down under the B point support, the price action triggered the BAMM.
The index fell another 700 pips to close this gap and test the PRZ.Clearly, the predominant
trend of the daily action dictated the short-term bearish bias until the pattern was completed.
Any trades—intra-day or daily swing positions—during this time should have favored the short
side until the BAMM completed.In this case, the larger weekly trend defined the short-term
downside within the constraints of the pattern.This long-term weekly scenario clearly illustrates
the BAMM concept, and the ability of these “magnet moves”to decipher price action and to
define trading opportunities.

150 Harmonic Trading: Volume Two
Bearish BAMM Breakdown in the CD Leg
The BAMM phenomenon can be clearly witnessed upon close inspection of the CD leg.As the
price action declines below the B point, the “magnet effect”begins, as illustrated in Figure 5.7.
C
0.50
B
BAMM
TRIGGER
D 0.886
Figure 5.7
The most important technical aspect of this breakdown is the clear continuation to the
downside after the price action exceeds the B point.The breakdown should continue
convincingly until it tests the PRZ.Although not all price action declines straight to the
completion point of the pattern, the most valid situations will exhibit decisive continuation.If not,
it is best to cover those positions that tend to stall after the BAMM is triggered.

Chapter 5 BAMM Theory 151
EuroDollar (EUR_A0-FX): Weekly
Bearish BAMM Breakdown in the CD Leg
The chart in Figure 5.8 shows the price action in the CD leg of the Bullish Bat.
Figure 5.8
This chart shows the ideal continuation to the downside necessary to validate these trading
opportunities.In this case, the Euro sank sharply on the breakdown below the prior B point at
1.2750.
The Euro exhibited the ideal price action in this example, and it clearly illustrates the
“magnet effect”of the BAMM concept.In the case of the Euro, it sold off sharply through this
BAMM zone until all of the numbers in the pattern’s PRZ were tested.This BAMM breakdown
defined a substantial 750-pip zone that was “under the magnet effect of the pattern”and
accurately identified the predominant bearish bias until the pattern was completed.Again,
technical information like this can immensely improve trading results, as the understanding of
such harmonic phenomena will consistently identify the predominant market bias and identify
those trades that seek to benefit from the established trend.

152 Harmonic Trading: Volume Two
AB=CD BAMM
As outlined previously, the CD leg is the most powerful price segment that possesses
substantial implications for trading opportunities within the BAMM framework.When analyzing
the completion of an AB=CD pattern, the determination of the pattern’s completion point cannot
be assessed until the CD leg has violated the B point of the structure.Although this may not
seem to be that significant of a technical phenomenon on smaller patterns, larger patterns in
price and time can offer tremendous opportunities to execute trades within this AB=CD BAMM
window with the profit objective clearly defined by the PRZ.Although the AB=CD BAMM
technical phenomenon might be more appropriately called AB=CD Magnet MoveorAB=CD
MM, the principles embodied within the BAMM theory best describe the entire concept.Hence,
the term is AB=CD BAMM.
In much the same manner that the BAMM principles apply to the Bat pattern when the
mid-point retracement level is exceeded, the AB=CD BAMM capitalizes on the “harmonic
breakout/breakdown”in distinct structures.Once the price action exceeds the B point, the
segment of the CD leg typically extends toward the completion point of the pattern.The BC
projection usually complements the setup, as the exact completion point of the pattern is most
important in this situation.
As a side note, it is important to point out that the Bearish AB=CD is utilized in the Bullish
BAMM because the opportunity to get long on the breakout of the prior B point is striving to
capture the remaining CD segment to the completion of the pattern.The inverse is true for the
Bearish BAMM.Also, it is important to note that this technique typically employs shorter-term
trading strategies within the context of a longer-term pattern.
Again, the ultimate goal is to capitalize on those smaller yet high-probability price moves
within the completion of a much larger pattern.Therefore, the point at which the CD leg
exceeds the prior B point provides a gap that represents a highly probable area of acceleration.
Like a magnet, the price action is pulled toward the completion point of the larger AB=CD
pattern.Although complex harmonic patterns provide even greater confirmation of the
completion of the structure, the important focus is on the area where the CD leg exceeds the
prior B point to the completion zone.

Chapter 5 BAMM Theory 153
Bullish AB=CD BAMM
In the case of the Bearish AB=CD pattern, the price action will typically accelerate on the
breakout of the resistance level at the B-point, as illustrated in Figure 5.9.
D
B
C
A
Figure 5.9
The most important technical aspect of this breakout is the clear continuation to the upside
after the price action exceeds the B point.The breakout should continue convincingly until it
tests the PRZ.Although not all price action rallies straight to the completion point of the pattern,
the most valid situations will exhibit decisive continuation.If not, it is best to cover those
positions that tend to stall after the AB=CD BAMM is triggered.

154 Harmonic Trading: Volume Two
Home Depot (HD): Daily
Bullish AB=CD BAMM
The weekly chart in Figure 5.10 shows a distinct Bearish AB=CD pattern that formed over the
course of six months.The structure rallied above the prior B point and accelerated to the
completion point of the pattern.
Figure 5.10
It is important to underscore the degree of confidence in the overall trend bias that these
situations instill.Although this technical understanding does not dismiss effective trade
management strategies to capitalize on these potential opportunities, the BAMM phenomenon
offers a great deal of evidence about the state of the predominant trend and a reliable
completion target for the price move.Defining these price constraints based from the BAMM
conditions instills a great deal of confidence in the position, as all parameters are outlined in
advance.In essence, these high-probability BAMM zones create tradable “windows”of price
segments.

Chapter 5 BAMM Theory 155
Home Depot (HD): Weekly
Bullish AB=CD BAMM Breakout in the CD Leg
The enlarged chart in Figure 5.11 shows the weekly price action in the CD leg of the Bearish
AB=CD.This chart shows the ideal upside continuation necessary to validate these harmonic
breakout trading opportunities.In this case, Home Depot rallied decisively as it broke above the
prior B point resistance just above $38.
Figure 5.11
Although a 3-point breakout might not seem like a big deal, the true beauty of this concept is
the understanding of the “magnet effect”of the price action as it completes the pattern and the
high probability bias that this technical phenomenon engenders.In this case, the “harmonic
breakout”on the weekly chart confirmed that the predominant trend would continue to the
completion point of the pattern.Situations such as these create a reliable bias of the primary
trend, which can optimize trading decisions by staying on the right side of the market.

156 Harmonic Trading: Volume Two
Bearish AB=CD BAMM
In the case of the Bullish AB=CD, the price action will typically accelerate on the breakdown of
the support level at the prior B-point, triggering a trade opportunity to sell on this continuation
with a target completion at the pattern’s PRZ (see Figure 5.12).
A
C
B
D
Figure 5.12
After the B point is violated, the trend should continue decidedly lower toward the
completion of the pattern.Although the price action may not decline straight to the PRZ, the
overall trend should maintain a steady descent to the harmonic numbers.

Chapter 5 BAMM Theory 157
Disney (DIS): Daily
Bullish AB=CD BAMM
The daily chart in Figure 5.13 shows the distinct AB=CD pattern that formed over the course of
nine months.The structure broke down under the prior B point and accelerated to the
completion point of the pattern.
Figure 5.13
Although the price action bounced about halfway to the ultimate completion of the pattern,
the eventual bearish continuation and overall negative bias dictated the predominant trend until
the harmonic support was tested.

158 Harmonic Trading: Volume Two
Disney (DIS): Daily
Bullish AB=CD BAMM
The enlarged chart in Figure 5.14 shows the price action in the CD leg of the Bullish AB=CD
and the ideal continuation to the downside necessary to validate this trading opportunity.In the
case of Disney, the stock accelerated to the downside after violating the B point.
Figure 5.14
The AB=CD BAMM is most effective when utilizing larger time frames to define the bias for
a shorter-term move.In the case of Disney, the daily downtrend after the BAMM was triggered
would have indicated that the predominant bearish bias would be maintained until the pattern
was completed at a minimum.Therefore, the BAMM trigger would have dictated short positions
at this time until the harmonic support was tested.

Chapter 5 BAMM Theory 159
BAMM Conclusion
There are many situations where distinct structures seem to indicate their completion long
before the reality.The ability to recognize harmonic price action within distinct structures is one
of the greatest advantages of this methodology.Although not all harmonic patterns complete as
expected, there are an overwhelming number of situations where this phenomenon reveals a
great deal about the future potential price action well in advance.
There are many types of BAMM or “magnet move”phenomena that occur within many of the
structures of harmonic patterns.The BAMM and AB=CD BAMM are two examples of special
technical situations where the potential completion of a particular pattern is first recognized and
effective strategies can be employed to capitalize on obvious harmonic price action.Other
types of BAMM phenomena—such as “morphing”situations—can materialize where failed
retracement patterns evolve into extension patterns.For example, there are many situations
where a failed Bearish Bat turns into a Bearish Crab.Although these situations are not as
precise as the BAMM and AB=CD BAMM, they represent another type of phenomenon that
involves the acceleration of price action from one harmonic level to the next.Again, it is within
these “windows of harmonic levels of support and resistance”where a great deal of technical
information can be garnered and high-probability trade opportunities defined.

This page intentionally left blank

Chapter 6
RSI BAMM
As the bear markets of 2000 and 2008 demonstrated, the need for strategies that determine
the overall bias is essential to develop a relative perspective on the position of any trade.For
example, there is a significant difference between a long position, representing a continuation
of the predominant bullish trend, as opposed to a brief correction within the overall downtrend.
Despite the prevalence of distinct patterns that favor one side of the market or the other, the
larger time frame and predominant trend will always dictate the extent of any move and the
possibility for profit.
Technical Indicators
Larger trend considerations such as these were not the only new factors that helped determine
the overall bias during these challenging bear markets.Other technical measures such as
Relative Strength helped to confirm the extent of the predominant trend.Furthermore, these
considerations have become increasingly more vital to the Harmonic Trading approach and in
the determination of the overall validity of patterns as reliable structural signals.
Although indicators were not new to my analysis, as I frequently employed these studies and
others such as Volume and Price Gap strategies, I must admit that I was not always as open-
minded regarding their importance.When I initially started to define the Harmonic Trading
approach, I employed simple trend lines, Volume, and a few other technical studies to
complement my existing price pattern analysis.The main focus of this approach was always on
the completion of price patterns.As I examined other complementary strategies to filter the
pattern completions, I realized that indicators and oscillators provided significant technical
signals that helped gauge the overall state of the price action.
Actually, I first discussed the dynamics of harmonic price action as it relates to the Trend,
Volume, and Price Gap studies in The Harmonic Trader.In this book, I outlined trading
strategies that analyzed patterns within the context of well-established trend channels, as well.
In recent years, I investigated a variety of technical indicators, including Stochastics, Volatility
Bands, MACD, and Relative Strength.Of all these measures, I have been looking for the
technical measure that would reveal the extent of buying and selling relative to the predominant
161

162 Harmonic Trading: Volume Two
trend.Since price patterns often represent the structural end of a significant trend, it seems that
it is most important to understand some type of relative measure that manifests the degree of
buying and selling at critical harmonic areas.Although many technical indicators were
advantageous in my research, within the framework of this approach, certain measures offered
more relevant and reliable predictive information.From a harmonic pattern perspective, the
structure is as important as where it completes relative to its prior price history.Therefore, the
importance of the relative structural alignment led me to the Relative Strength Index (RSI),
which provided that measure.
The integration of other technical studies, in particular RSI, was a significant evolution in my
research.As a dedicated student of the financial markets, I have always believed it is important
to embrace a gamut of market strategies to thoroughly understand market price action.
Considering a variety of technical methods can provide greater confirmation of potential price
action.
In fact, H.M.Gartley in his infamous book Profits in the Stock Market, emphasized such
multiple confirmation strategies of technical methods, stating:
“Patterns must be used in conjunction with other technical working
tools.The study of tops and bottoms,to be of greatest value,must
be combined,and used in conjunction with the study of other
working tools,such as Trend Lines,Moving Averages,Gaps,and
particularly Volume,as well as Dow Theory and the general market
phenomena which we call ‘Breadth-of-the-Market’studies.”
(Profits in the Stock Market[Pomeroy, WA:Lambert-Gann Publishing,
1932], 221).
The evolution of the Harmonic Trading approach has led to a more integrative perspective
that is congruent with Gartley’s philosophy.Patterns—in this case, harmonic patterns—must be
used in conjunction with other technical working tools.Of the vast array of indicators and
oscillators available that I have researched, RSI represents the most effective measure in
relation to the completion of harmonic patterns.
Although when talking about Relative Strength, sometimes people confuse the subject as
relative to another index, such as the S&P 500.In this case, I’m talking about the Relative
Strength measure that calculates the internal change of price movement, usually comparing the
current price history with that of an average of a certain number of periods prior.(Typically, a
14-period average is calculated.) The readings of RSI measurements exhibit a number of
unique technical traits in their own merit.For example, patterns that complete at extreme RSI
readings can help to identify those special situations where the impending reversal signals the
end of an extended trend.In many instances, I have noticed RSI readings that have formed
similar complex structures in setups that possessed distinct price patterns.Even more
compelling were situations where a Bearish Gartley, for instance, would develop on the price
chart, while an indicator reading was showing a Bearish Three Drives structure.Both the price
and the indicator reading structures completed at the same point within their own relative chart,

Chapter 6 RSI BAMM 163
serving to confirm the reversal.These are a few of the many distinct relationships that help to
decipher price action within the context of harmonic price patterns.Furthermore, these unique
phenomena can pinpoint the most critical turning points in the markets.Regardless of these
obvious relationships, I was still looking for those exact situations where the dynamics of
harmonic price patterns and technical indicators identified unique Potential Reversal
Zones (PRZ).
Relative Strength Index (RSI)
The RSI was discovered by Welles Wilder in the 1970s.Wilder introduced RSI in his book New
Concepts in Technical Trading Systems. In addition to the RSI technique, he introduced several
other indicator and oscillator studies, including the Directional Movement Index (DMI).He
presented a variety of unprecedented technical measurement strategies, but RSI is among his
finest contributions to the field of Technical Analysis.Although it is properly categorized as a
momentum oscillator, RSI is typically considered one of the more popular indicator studies
available today.
The RSI was devised by Wilder as a means of calculating the change in momentum of price
movement as it relates to a predetermined time period.The name Relative Strength Index is
slightly misleading, as the RSI does not compare the relative strength of two markets, but
rather the internal strength of the price action of an individual issue.
RSI is a price-following oscillator that ranges between 0 and 100.The RSI typically peaks
above 70 and bottoms below 30, and it usually forms these readings before the underlying
price chart.The RSI equation is derived by calculating the ratio of the average of X (number)
price bars (days) day’s closes up divided by the average of X (number) price bars (days) day’s
closes down.Although “X”can be any value, Wilder employed a 14-period factor in his
computation.The equation is calculated as follows:
RSI = 100 – (100 / (1+RS))
Average of 14 (X) day’s closes UP
RS = Average of 14 (X) day’s closes DOWN
This equation quantifies the relative momentum of the current price action with that of 14 (X)
periods ago.The extreme RSI readings provide excellent measures to the degree that the price
action has persisted and the continued strength or momentum of the predominant trend.The
true value of these readings occurs when the price and the indicator react at extreme areas.
When the RSI tests an extreme overbought or oversold area at critical harmonic levels of
support or resistance, the price action can reveal a great deal regarding the potential state of
the predominant trend.

164 Harmonic Trading: Volume Two
Divergence
The benefit of the RSI is most advantageous when compared to clear areas of support and
resistance.The key technical event occurs when the price and the RSI diverge.In fact, in his
bookNew Concepts, Wilder emphasized the importance of divergence:
“Although divergence does not occur at every turning point,it does
occur at most significant turning points.When divergence begins
to show up after a good directional move,this is a very strong
indication that a turning point is near.Divergence is the single
most indicative characteristic of the Relative Strength Index.”
(New Concepts in Technical Trading Systems[Greensboro, NC:Trend
Research, 1978], 70).
I agree with Wilder.In fact, I believe that the RSI is the most reliable technical reading to
reveal such divergence as it directly relates to price.Furthermore, the technical phenomenon of
RSI divergence is particularly revealing when related to the completion of harmonic patterns.
As my research continued to explore this technical phenomenon further, I soon realized that
the various RSI readings could be differentiated in much the same manner as harmonic
patterns.I was able to define different types of extreme RSI readings and categorize these
structures accordingly.This experimentation yielded significant technical information and helped
to validate harmonic setups immensely.
RSI + BAMM = RSI BAMM
When applied to indicator readings, the BAMM concept differentiated various structures,
especially in the extreme overbought and oversold RSI zones.The differentiated RSI readings
at the completion of distinct harmonic patterns confirmed reversals and the overall validity of
the setup in an unprecedented manner.
Although the BAMM principles could be applied to many technical studies, Relative Strength
readings formed more distinct structures than any other indicator and provided the most
reliable information in these divergent situations.As I continued to investigate the effectiveness
of this strategy, one divergent technical situation, in particular, that I discovered worked
unbelievably well within the Harmonic Trading approach.
RSI BAMM
The RSI BAMM is a method that examines the state of the indicator before considering the
structure of the price action.As is the case with harmonic patterns, the RSI BAMM requires
specific conditions to be met to validate a trade opportunity.Regardless of the extent of any

Chapter 6 RSI BAMM 165
price move or the structure that it forms, the RSI BAMM requires that a mandatory reading in
the extreme overbought or oversold area occur to initiate the setup.
This condition creates an inherent problem within the Harmonic Trading approach, since the
setup is dependent upon the RSI reading and not the price structure.For example, there are
many instances where an extended predominant trend will seem to go on forever.Price action
that enjoys a rally for quite some time may seem to never stop.Frequently, such well-
established trends trade quite nicely within an upward sloping range and seem to be invincible.
These situations can lull a trader into a complacent mindset, believing that the rally will last
forever.However, the RSI reading can paint a different picture by assessing the relative extent
of the price action.In other words, the RSI reading can indicate the degree of buying that has
occurred.Although the RSI is an early signal, an extreme reading can serve as a potential
warning sign of an impending reversal.When compared to the price action, clear areas of
divergence can be defined.
I would like to take a moment and comment on a common misconception regarding
indicators as a stand-alone technique for trading the markets.Many critics in the past have
argued against the effectiveness of the RSI to be a reliable market signal.Some have argued
that RSI does not possess credible technical information due to the fact that price action does
not follow any consistent and predictable pattern following an extreme reading.Such universal
application is not realistic, as anyone who really understands Technical Analysis knows this is
not the proper analysis of such measures.All methods must be compared, contrasted, and
analyzed with other approaches to determine the aggregate information provided from the price
action.Whether to use trend lines, Stochastics, Candlestick reversal patterns, or any other
method, it is imperative to have confirmation of multiple approaches to yield the most pertinent
information for the best technical decision regarding any trade.In fact, in his book New
Concepts, Wilder emphasized the importance of divergence:
“The Relative Strength Index,used in conjunction with a bar chart,
can provide a new dimension of interpretation for the chart reader.
No single tool,method,or system is going to produce the right
answers 100% of the time.A successful trader utilizes several
different kinds of input into his decisions.”
(New Concepts in Technical Trading Systems[Greensboro, NC:Trend
Research, 1978], 70).

166 Harmonic Trading: Volume Two
A Unique Technical Situation
Although the RSI BAMM involves many steps to validate this technical phenomenon and it
might seem complex first, it is important to understand that this is truly a unique technical
situation.The RSI BAMM is an advanced divergent condition where the RSI readings and
harmonic pattern completions define extremely accurate technical levels and decipher the
predominant trend in an unprecedented fashion.Although this advanced application of the
basic tool that Welles Wilder developed decades ago does not appear in every market all of
the time, when these conditions are present, the RSI BAMM is extremely accurate in defining
precise levels of harmonic support and resistance.Furthermore, this technique quantifies the
“indicative characteristic”of divergence in a manner that I believe even Wilder would find
interesting.
I have accumulated a great deal of research on the various applications of the RSI.Starting
with Wilder’s original work and examining a variety of other material, I believe that the RSI
BAMM is an unprecedented application of this technical tool.Although many of the strategies
do include some of the simple concepts involved within the Wilder’s original application—such
as divergence, confirmation, and basic measurement techniques—the advanced application of
the RSI with harmonic patterns represents uncharted territory for the Harmonic Trading
approach, and for that matter, Technical Analysis.
The simple integration of the RSI represents a dramatic shift in the Harmonic Trading
approach.Although the RSI BAMM may seem to stray from the principles of this methodology,
the integration of the RSI adheres to the basic tenets of the Harmonic Trading approach.
Fibonacci measurement techniques and pattern recognition strategies are still the primary
basis that differentiate each situation and define the potential opportunity.I suggest to
thoroughly study all aspects of this new strategy before attempting to implement it into real
trading situations.Although the RSI BAMM requires many technical conditions to be met,
pattern completions within this framework provide the significant trade signals and accurate
evidence of the probable future price action well in advance.

Chapter 6 RSI BAMM 167
Bullish RSI BAMM
The Bullish RSI BAMM begins with a complex reading in an oversold area under the 30 limit.
Referring to the RSI BAMM illustration in Figure 6.1, the entire process requires several
elements to validate this specific scenario.In much the same manner that the initial rules of
harmonic pattern identification and differentiation may have seemed overwhelming, the RSI
BAMM rules—albeit a bit complex upon first study—provide a coherent and comprehensive
method for accurately measuring potential areas of divergence.
34
A
32
30
28
26
24
X
22
1.13-1.618
B
20
Relative Strength (RSI)
Overbought (70)
RSI BAMM RSI BAMM
Trigger Bar Confirmation Bar
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Oversold (30)
Figure 6.1
Obviously, the ideal situation does not occur every time.It is important to remember that the
real application of the RSI BAMM principles requires a degree of flexibility.However, the ideal
model does present all of the critical elements that clearly explain the effectiveness of this
strategy.Furthermore, it is essential to maintain the patience to execute only those trades that
possess all required elements that validate a trade signal based upon the rules of the Bullish
RSI BAMM setup.
Despite its initial complexity, the RSI BAMM strategy in combination with harmonic patterns
effectively validates PRZs and offers an enhanced level of precision and accuracy.

168 Harmonic Trading: Volume Two
Chevron-Texaco (CVX): Daily
Bullish RSI BAMM
The example of Chevron-Texaco in Figure 6.2 shows an excellent RSI BAMM setup on the
daily chart.Figure 6.2 does not display all of the critical details of the RSI BAMM;rather, the
Chevron-Texaco chart manifests all of the basic elements to validate this setup.
1.13
RRSSII BBAAMMMM RRSSII BBAAMMMM
TTrriiggggeerr BBaarr CCoonnffiirrmmaattiioonn PPooiinntt
Figure 6.2
This example of Chevron Texaco shows a distinct RSI BAMM setup.The initial complex RSI
formation established the beginning of the entire process, and the indicator completed the
necessary steps to validate the setup.Although I will outline the advanced concepts later in this
chapter, it is important to review this chart carefully because it truly exemplifies all of the ideal
elements of the RSI BAMM.

Chapter 6 RSI BAMM 169
Step 1: Initial RSI Test of Extreme Bullish Limit
In the Bullish RSI BAMM scenario, the first step is to identify price action that possesses an
RSI reading in the extreme oversold zone below 30.As I mentioned previously, it is important to
note that the 30 level for the oversold limit, as well as the 70 level to define the overbought
area, were first outlined by Welles Wilder in his book New Concepts and Trading Systems.In
addition, a 14-period average is calculated from his approach.Although this system utilizes the
standard RSI measures, the indicator can be refined to utilize other levels and time periods to
define the extreme Relative Strength levels.I leave that to you to research.I have experimented
with other periods, and these results have yielded excellent confirmation signals.In general, the
standard parameters above a 70 reading as overbought and below the 30 limit as oversold with
a 14-period average serve as the best guidelines for the entire RSI BAMM approach.Besides,
who am I to disagree with Welles Wilder?
Step 2: Complete a Bullish W-Type Complex RSI
Structure
One of the reasons why the RSI BAMM is so effective is because it requires that the entire
structure of the indicator form below the oversold 30 level before a trade signal can be
generated.This is advantageous because the RSI structure can be distinguished while still
allowing for enough time for the price action to set up correctly to validate the entire technique.
The initial focus should be on the formation of the indicator reading in the entire extreme range
rather than looking for a specific numeric level.
This is a mandatory requirement of the RSI BAMM, where all points of the W-type formation
must take place below the 30 level.It is important to remember that this is an early signal, and
the price action quite frequently will continue in the predominant downtrend after the W-type
structure has formed.But, this marks the initial stage of the divergence setup, where the price
action continues lower, while the RSI stabilizes and begins to move higher.However, due to the
variety of indicator structures that form in the oversold area, it is important to differentiate the
two types that form at RSI extreme levels.
Two Types of Bullish Indicator Structures
There are two general classes of W-type indicator structures that test the extreme oversold
level—impulsive and complex.Most bullish indicator readings that are below 30 will be
impulsive in nature and will not yield the required structure to be considered a valid RSI BAMM
setup.However, valid complex structures that are correctly identified offer a tremendous
technical advantage because they are particularly unique and represent a vital potential
reversal area within the overall trend of the price action.The primary focus of the initial step is
to identify a complex RSI W-type structure in the extreme oversold area under the 30-limit.

170 Harmonic Trading: Volume Two
Bullish Impulsive Indicator Structures
A bullish impulsive indicator structure reflects price action that is experiencing a quick test of
the extreme oversold support area, and it can typically reverse quickly without any
consolidating price action (see Figure 6.3).Since the price action commonly reverses sharply in
these cases, the indicator reading rallies above the extreme limit above 30 typically within 1 or
2 price bars of the initial test.
34
32
30
28
26
24
22
20
Relative Strength (RSI)
Overbought (70)
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Oversold (30)
Figure 6.3
Although such impulsive formations may test the extreme bullish RSI level, it is important to
focus on the nature of the indicator structure and not necessarily the exact numeric reading (as
long as it is below the 30 limit).The exact indicator level is important in quantifying the extreme
state of RSI, but the general indicator formation is the critical factor that serves as the essential
trigger to validate a potential trade opportunity.

Chapter 6 RSI BAMM 171
Chevron-Texaco (CVX): Daily
Bullish Impulse Indicator Structure
In this example, Chevron-Texaco possessed an ideal impulsive structure (see Figure 6.4).It is
important to note the sharp nature of the test of the extreme oversold area, as both the price
action and the RSI reading reversed immediately after sinking below the 30 level.
Figure 6.4
Impulsive structures like these can be effective technical measures as they serve to confirm
bullish patterns and other trading signals.However, it is important to note that the signals
generated from extreme RSI readings do not constitute a comprehensive approach to trading
the market.As I mentioned previously, I believe this is a common misconception in the
application of the Relative Strength measure, and for that matter, most other technical
indicators and oscillators.In my opinion, such technical measures must be utilized as a
complementary methodology rather than as an exclusive approach.A Relative Strength reading
below the 30 limit does not automatically signify a trade opportunity.In fact, certain extreme
impulse structures can signal significant continuations of the predominant trend.These
strategies will be covered later in the book.For now, it is important to keep in mind the two

172 Harmonic Trading: Volume Two
different types of structures.Furthermore, as is the case with all technical indicators, other
methods must be employed to validate any potential trade opportunity on a multiple
confirmation basis.
Bullish Complex Indicator Structure
A complex structure represents an indicator formation that initially exceeds the 30 level and
forms a W-type pattern entirely in the extreme area, as illustrated in Figure 6.5.The complex
structure typically remains below the oversold 30 limit longer than an impulsive formation.
34
32
30
28
26
24
22
20
Relative Strength (RSI)
Overbought (70)
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Oversold (30)
Figure 6.5
Despite representing a more significant technical condition than an impulsive formation, the
bullish complex structure is usually an early trading signal.In fact, it is common for price action
to continue to decline sharply in price, while the complex RSI structure is developing in the
oversold range under the 30 limit.Although the advanced concepts will be clearly presented
later in this chapter, it is important to keep in mind that a complex indicator reading is merely
the starting point for the entire approach, not the defining event of the methodology.
Furthermore, the complex formation establishes the beginning of the most critical aspect of the
entire RSI BAMM methodology—divergence.

Chapter 6 RSI BAMM 173
Chevron-Texaco (CVX): Daily
Bullish Complex Indicator Structure
The chart in Figure 6.6 shows an excellent complex RSI structure, as the stock formed a
distinct W-type pattern in the extreme oversold area under the 30 level.
Figure 6.6
It is important to note that the critical divergence stage begins after the completion of the
complex Relative Strength reading.After a period of consolidation, the indicator stabilizes while
the price action continues to decline.Although the price action may seem to be maintaining its
current downtrend, valid complex bullish RSI structures usually trigger a reversal sooner rather
later.However, these structures mark critical support levels well before a potential change in
the overall direction, but this situation typically requires a secondary retest before completing
the reversal.
Although a few other elements must fall into place for the Bullish RSI BAMM to be validated,
the formation of a complex RSI structure triggers the starting point for the entire process.
Again, this is an early signal, and it is critical to wait for the W-type structure to break above the

174 Harmonic Trading: Volume Two
30 line to confirm its completion.After the complex RSI structure has been established, the
other considerations of potential pattern completions and specific RSI BAMM harmonic
measurements can be projected to determine the optimal reversal area.This leads us to our
next step, which includes defining and measuring the price level that triggers this breakdown.
Step 3: Define the RSI Trigger Bar
After defining the complex RSI formation, the next step requires a measurement of the price
area where the W-type indicator structure has completed.The price bar that causes the bullish
complex RSI indicator reading to complete and to rally above the oversold 30-limit is known as
theRSI BAMM Trigger Bar.
After identifying the RSI BAMM Trigger Bar, it is critical to mark the bottom of this price bar
by drawing an extended line from the low, projecting the minimum RSI BAMM support level to
the right of the chart (as is illustrated in Figure 6.7).This RSI BAMM Trigger Bar support line
serves as a minimum technical level for the corresponding retest and the anticipated execution
area of the completion of the final phase of the RSI BAMM.
34
32
30
28
26
24
22
20
Relative Strength (RSI)
RSI BAMM
Overbought (70) Trigger Bar
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Oversold (30)
Figure 6.7

Chapter 6 RSI BAMM 175
Chevron-Texaco (CVX): Daily
RSI BAMM Trigger Bar
From a general perspective, the trigger bar as defined by the completion of the complex RSI
structure denotes the starting point for the critical divergence phase that the entire
methodology is attempting to define and quantify (see Figure 6.8).
RRSSII BBAAMMMM
TTrriiggggeerr BBaarr
Figure 6.8
From a broader perspective, the RSI Trigger Bar can reveal a great deal about the validity of
the setup and the state of the potential price action.For now, the most critical element of the
RSI BAMM approach begins after the indicator has reversed from the oversold area by
completing a complex W-type structure.
The position of the Bullish RSI BAMM Trigger Bar in relation to the prior extreme low point is
critical.Although its significance will be further explained later in this section, it is important to
remember that the Bullish RSI BAMM Trigger Bar typically will be the price bar that is the exact
prior low of the current move or within a few intervals of the extreme low.The trigger bar is
critical because it marks the completion point of the complex RSI structure.In essence, it is the
price bar that completed the W-type structure and rallied the indicator reading above the
oversold 30 level to generate a significant technical signal.

176 Harmonic Trading: Volume Two
Step 4: Reaction of RSI and Price
After the initial pop following the completion of the complex RSI structure, the price and
indicator begin to decline in tandem (see Figure 6.9).Frequently, this initial breakdown offers a
distinct trading opportunity, but these strategies will be covered a bit later in this chapter.
However, the initial breakdown still requires a few elements to be satisfied to realize the
completion of the RSI BAMM.
34
A
32
30
28
26
24
X 1.13-1.618 22
B 20
Relative Strength (RSI)
Overbought (70)
Price declines to a nominal new low while
the RSI impulse retests the oversold limit
but reverses above the prior complex low.
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Oversold (30)
Figure 6.9

Chapter 6 RSI BAMM 177
Chevron-Texaco (CVX): Daily
Reaction of RSI and Price
After the RSI BAMM Trigger Bar has been established and the price action rallies following its
completion, there will typically be a breakdown of this brief and sharp rally.In the case of
Chevron-Texaco, the price action rallied sharply—establishing the first phase.After completing
the RSI BAMM Trigger Bar, the price action and indicator reading began to roll over
immediately after violating the brief yet sharp uptrend line (see Figure 6.10).
PPrriiccee ddeecclliinneess ttoo aa nnoommiinnaall
nneeww llooww wwhhiillee tthhee RRSSII rreetteessttss
tthhee oovveerrssoolldd lliimmiitt bbuutt rreevveerrsseess
aabboovvee tthhee pprriioorr llooww..
Figure 6.10
In all cases, when the price action rolls over after violating the uptrend line following the RSI
BAMM Trigger Bar completion, the final phase of the entire RSI BAMM process begins.
However, there is one condition for the initial reaction following the completion of the complex
RSI indicator structure.This specific type of retest is a mandatory condition before the final
stage of the RSI BAMM completion can be realized.

178 Harmonic Trading: Volume Two
Specific Type of RSI Retest
This specific type of retest is one of the most critical aspects of the entire RSI BAMM
methodology.The RSI reading MUST retrace to at least the 50 level before the final retest can
occur(see Figure 6.11).
Watch for breakdown of 34
initial rally after 50-limit
A 32
RSI mid-point is tested.
30
28
26
24
X 1.13-1.618 22
20
B
Relative Strength (RSI)
Overbought (70)
RSI BAMM RSI BAMM
Trigger Bar Confirmation Point
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Initial Reaction of RSI to
Minimum Retest of the 50-Limit
Oversold (30)
RSI Mid-Point before
Completing RSI BAMM
Confirmation Bar
Figure 6.11
Although there is room for interpretation as the RSI reading may exceed the 50 level on this
initial reaction, it serves as a minimum requirement to distinguish the most ideal situations.The
mid-point retracement for the RSI reading is an important intermediate step that precedes the
corresponding retest and the final phase of the RSI BAMM.This condition serves as a sufficient
correction of the initial extreme RSI reading before establishing the final divergence.Let’s look
at the Chevron-Texaco example to illustrate this mandatory retest.

Chapter 6 RSI BAMM 179
Chevron-Texaco (CVX): Daily
RSI BAMM Trigger Bar
In the Chevron-Texaco example, the stock tested the minimum mid-point RSI line on the initial
reaction after the completion of the complex RSI structure (see Figure 6.12).Although the stock
required time to consolidate at this midpoint line before testing the Confirmation Point, the fact
that it tested the mid-point line served as the minimum requirement to validate the RSI BAMM.
B
A
C
Minimum RSI 50-Limit Retest Before
Completing RSI BAMM Confirmation
Figure 6.12
Again, it is important to note that the indicator reading may exceed the 50 level, but it must
test this area at a minimum before completing the RSI BAMM Confirmation Point.In this
example, Chevron-Texaco began to roll over after the first test of the RSI mid-point level but still
required a period of time before resolving the divergent technical situation.

180 Harmonic Trading: Volume Two
Step 5:The Final Phase—Divergence of RSI Versus
Price
The final divergence stage begins after the RSI reading pulls back to at least the 50 mid-line.
The short-term rally breaks down from the uptrend line of the initial reaction.The rollover of the
initial rally leads to an eventual retest of the prior low.The price action andthe RSI reading
retest their relative prior support points in tandem.(The horizontal [dotted] line drawn from the
low of the RSI Trigger Bar to the right of the chart defines the minimum resistance level for the
completion of the RSI BAMM and the eventual entry of the trade [see Figure 6.13].) The
important technical information of the entire approach is revealed in this retest.The best trading
opportunities develop when distinct patterns complete at important retest points for the RSI.
When patterns complete while the RSI stabilizes, these signs accurately validate successful
reversals well in advance.
34
A
32
t o P ar i c e
D
30
N o mie nc al li n
Le
s
2 28
6
o
w
24
X 1.13-1.618 22
B 20
Relative Strength (RSI)
Overbought (70)
Final Divergence Stage –
RSI BAMM
RSI BAMM Confirmation Point
Trigger Bar
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Oversold (30)
RSI Bullish Divergence: Indicator Up
Figure 6.13
This is a situation where the Relative Strength reading is providing an early signal to the end
of the predominant trend.Although this signal may be the end of the trend technically, the price
action typically experiences one last decline to retest the support area, as established by the
complex Bullish RSI structure.This final stage of the retest reveals a great deal about the
strength of the predominant trend and the validity of the signal generated by the complex RSI
structure.In essence, the price action diverges in a “last gasp”from the indicator reading.

Chapter 6 RSI BAMM 181
Chevron-Texaco (CVX): Daily
Divergence of RSI Versus Price
After Chevron-Texaco completed its reaction following the complex RSI BAMM structure, the
final divergence stage was initiated.Clearly, the price action started to decline while the RSI
reading stabilized (see Figure 6.14).
B
A
C
PPrriiccee nnoommiinnaallllyy eexxcceeeeddss
pprriioorr llooww..
RRSSII iimmppuullssiivvee rreetteesstt ooff oovveerrssoolldd
aarreeaa bbuutt hhoollddss aabboovvee pprriioorr rreeaaddiinngg..
Figure 6.14
On the retest of the complex RSI structure, the ability of the indicator to test the extreme
area while holding above the prior reading manifested the internal strength of this reversal
zone.The price action rolled over to nominally sink below the prior low and retested the
oversold area with an impulsive RSI structure.
This type of technical action is a perfect example of the RSI BAMM defining a critical
divergence area.In fact, the phenomenon of this technical divergence is the most critical
aspect of the entire methodology.Important clues and signals occur within this stage of the
approach to validate these setups.Specifically, the price action should exceed the prior low
nominally, while the RSI reverses above its prior reading and forming an impulsive retest of the

182 Harmonic Trading: Volume Two
oversold 30 limit.The critical point of the divergence can be seen in Figure 6.15 where the
trend of the price action continues slightly lower while the trend of the RSI reading moves
higher.
B
FFiinnaall
DDiivveerrggeennccee
== PPrriiccee
DDoowwnn
A
C
FFiinnaall DDiivveerrggeennccee == RRSSII UUpp
Figure 6.15
This final stage of the entire setup reveals the extent of divergence, where the Relative
Strength reading of the trend indicates a reversal hand while the price continues to decline in a
final dip.If the RSI structure is a valid support signal, typically the price action will reverse
quickly after exceeding the initial prior low point.Although I will outline the advantages of
utilizing Harmonic Trading techniques of pattern recognition and Fibonacci measurement
strategies with the RSI BAMM Completion Point, it is important to examine this general
technical phenomenon on its own.
This phase of the RSI BAMM defines the specific type of divergence that Welles Wilder
described in his book New Concepts in Technical Trading Systems.However, the final phase of
the RSI BAMM employs advanced strategies that refine this divergence to define unique and
incredibly accurate trade opportunities.Specifically, pattern formations that converge with the
RSI BAMM Confirmation phase offer remarkably important technical evidence of the state of
the predominant trend and future probable direction.

Chapter 6 RSI BAMM 183
Chevron-Texaco (CVX): Daily
Bearish RSI BAMM Confirmation Bar
The enlarged chart in Figure 6.16 shows the bullish divergence between the RSI and the price.
Clearly, the RSI stabilized as Chevron-Texaco declined to a nominal new low.After reversing
from the RSI retest, the RSI BAMM Confirmation Point was completed and the reversal was
triggered.
RRSSII BBAAMMMM
CCoonnffiirrmmaattiioonn PPooiinntt
Figure 6.16

184 Harmonic Trading: Volume Two
Step 6: Bullish RSI BAMM Confirmation Point: 1.13
Versus 1.618
In the development of the RSI BAMM, I was challenged for quite some time to discern the
correct extension for the Confirmation Point.Although the difference between 1.13 and 1.618
may appear small, in real trading situations this gap frequently can be expensive.With respect
to the primary tenets of Harmonic Trading and pattern identification, exact specification of
technical measurement techniques is required to yield the most accurate information regarding
the validity of any trading opportunity.Although these are general rules, I noticed a unique
variation in the ultimate extension of the final divergence phase of the Bullish RSI BAMM.
The key factor depended upon the position of the Trigger Bar relative to the prior low.If the
RSI BAMM Trigger Bar is a few price bars (typically 2–4) from the prior low, the execution of the
trade will occur at the corresponding 1.13 extension.However, an RSI BAMM Trigger Bar that
develops at the extreme low for the move will result in a 1.618 extension at the Confirmation
Point.
As mentioned previously, the technical divergence that occurs in this step is the most
important part of the entire approach because it gauges the price action at a critical “internal”
point within the trend.Although the RSI BAMM structure may form in the indicator and indicate
internal strength, the retest where the reading has stabilized and the price action has diverged
offers an enormous amount of information regarding the technical state of the overall trend.
Specifically, when the price declines below the initial low as the indicator reverses from an
impulsive test of the oversold 30 limit, the Confirmation Point serves as a critical support level.
Furthermore, this area validates the existence of any bullish patterns converging at either a
1.13 or a 1.618 extension.Although I will discuss the importance of pattern completions a bit
later in this section, the prescribed RSI BAMM projection points define a precise technical
window for a potential reversal.In combination with harmonic pattern recognition techniques,
these methods complement each other immensely to pinpoint precise make-or-break technical
levels.Simply stated, the key is to look for a harmonic pattern that completes in the same area
and at the same time as the RSI BAMM Confirmation Bar.For now, it is important to review the
basic rules for the measurement of the projected divergence—either 1.13 or 1.618—before
discussing pattern completions in the final phase of the RSI BAMM.

Chapter 6 RSI BAMM 185
1.13 Extension at Bullish RSI BAMM Confirmation
Point
Although the general rule regarding the Confirmation Point extension differentiates the 1.13 and
1.618 ratios, the focus of the Trigger Bar should be on the extreme prior low.Essentially, if the
Bullish RSI BAMM Trigger Bar is not the extreme price bar from the prior low, the 1.13
extension is utilized to quantify the minimum execution area for the trade.Typically, the RSI
BAMM Trigger Bar that employs a 1.13 extension is either the third or fourth price bar from the
extreme prior low.Without question, an extreme low price bar that comprises the RSI BAMM
Trigger Bar will utilize a 1.618 extension.However, the 1.13 extension is merely a critical
minimum price level at the RSI BAMM Confirmation Point (see Figure 6.17).
If RSI BAMM Trigger Bar is not the extreme
price high (usually 2-4 price bars from prior 34
A
extreme high), then RSI BAMM Confirmation
32
Point will complete at a 1.13 extension.
30
28
26
24
X 1.13 22
20
B
Relative Strength (RSI)
Overbought (70)
RSI BAMM RSI BAMM
Trigger Bar Confirmation Point
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Oversold (30)
Figure 6.17
The completion of harmonic patterns may influence the ultimate execution point of the trade
beyond the minimum target of the Confirmation Point in the case of a 1.13 extension.For
example, a Bullish Butterfly may form in the final divergence leg and complete at a 1.27
projection, slightly past the 1.13 extension of the RSI BAMM Confirmation Point.In this
situation, the completion of the harmonic pattern would be more significant and serve as the
entry level for the trade.Although a test of the 1.13 extension should always be a minimum
requirement for a trade to be triggered at the RSI BAMM Confirmation Point, the completion of
a harmonic pattern in this area possesses greater significance and more distinct technical price
levels to determine the validity of a potential trade.

186 Harmonic Trading: Volume Two
Chevron-Texaco (CVX): Daily
Bullish RSI BAMM Trigger Bar
In the Chevron-Texaco example shown in Figure 6.18, the RSI BAMM Trigger Bar is the third
bar from the prior low.In these cases, the typical RSI BAMM Confirmation Point occurs at the
1.13 extension.Although there is room for interpretation, this example of the Chevron-Texaco
shows an ideal situation.
A
RRSSII BBAAMMMM TTrriiggggeerr BBaarr::
TThhrreeee PPrriiccee BBaarrss ffrroomm LLooww
Figure 6.18
Unlike the case of the 1.618 extension, any situation that is not the extreme low will normally
employ a 1.13 extension as the minimum RSI BAMM Completion Point.

Chapter 6 RSI BAMM 187
Step 7:Trade Execution at the Bullish Pattern
Completion and the Bullish RSI BAMM Confirmation
Point
After establishing the necessary steps to define the final divergence phase of the Bullish RSI
BAMM, the integration of harmonic patterns at the Confirmation Point represents the ultimate
advancement of the entire Harmonic Trading methodology.Although the RSI BAMM
Confirmation Point is generally differentiated by the location of the Trigger Bar as it relates to
the prior low, the execution of the trade is defined by the completion of a distinct harmonic
pattern in the PRZ.
The combination of these two methods in this manner yields precise levels of harmonic
support and accurate entry levels for potential trades.However, there are a few important
scenarios that must be regarded, as to know which patterns are to be applied to the
appropriate RSI BAMM scenario.The primary focus should determine whether the RSI BAMM
Confirmation Point will end at a 1.13 or a 1.618 extension.
Pattern Completion in 1.13–1.618 RSI BAMM Area
It is important to remember that the line drawn across the chart from the low point of the RSI
BAMM Trigger Bar acts as a minimum support line for the entire setup.Although the two price
levels of the 1.13 and the 1.618 define the entire area for the RSI BAMM, the pattern that is
completing within these constraints is the defining price range for the execution of a trade.
The most important consideration involves the 1.13 and 1.618 RSI BAMM extensions to
define which pattern is utilized at the Completion Point.If the 1.13 extension is triggered, there
are several possibilities that may develop depending upon the price structure at the Completion
Point.The most common and most effective pattern to define reversal points beyond the 1.13
extension is the Bullish Butterfly pattern.Although an Alternate Bat pattern is typically found
completing exactly at the 1.13 extension and serves to define many excellent setups, there are
other situations where a Bullish Gartley or a Bullish Bat develops to define the completion of
the setup and execution of the trade.Regardless of the type, the completion of the pattern in
relation to the RSI retest is the determining technical event that defines this situation.
The impulsive RSI retest must coordinate with the completion of the harmonic pattern at
hand to validate the reversal.The completion of the pattern is the most important consideration
in this zone, as long as the impulse RSI test has held above the prior reading’s low.Although
waiting for the RSI to test the overbought area may delay executions, it serves as an effective
filter in the completion area of a pattern.Furthermore, this coordination represents the final
point where the divergence of the RSI has completed and the price structure indicates the end
of the trend.

188 Harmonic Trading: Volume Two
Bullish Butterfly at 1.13 RSI BAMM Confirmation Point
In most cases, the Bullish Butterfly pattern forms at the 1.13 RSI BAMM Confirmation Point, as
illustrated in Figure 6.19.Since the Bullish Butterfly employs a 1.27 XA extension, the
completion of the pattern is going to be slightly below the 1.13 RSI BAMM Confirmation Point.
34
A
C
32
30
28
B 26
0.786
24
X 1. 22
6
1
1.27 8 20
D
Relative Strength (RSI)
Overbought (70)
RSI BAMM RSI BAMM
Trigger Bar Confirmation Point
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Oversold (30)
Bullish Butterfly Completes @ 1.13 RSI Confirmation Point
Figure 6.19
Again, the coordination of the RSI BAMM Confirmation Bar with the completion of the
harmonic pattern is the special technical situation that makes this Bullish Butterfly more critical
than most price structures.Essentially, the Confirmation Point represents the defining area
where the overall trend bias has changed and the price is in the final stages of a complete
turnaround.

Chapter 6 RSI BAMM 189
Chevron-Texaco (CVX): Daily
Bullish Butterfly at Bullish RSI BAMM Confirmation
Point
As illustrated in the chart in Figure 6.20 of the Bullish Butterfly pattern in our Chevron-Texaco
example, the stock possessed an ideal RSI BAMM setup.The completion of the pattern
coincided with the RSI BAMM confirmation.As the price declined and formed the pattern
structure, the secondary impulsive RSI test at the Confirmation Point reversed above the prior
complex formation.
B
A
C
RRSSII BBAAMMMM RRSSII BBAAMMMM
TTrriiggggeerr BBaarr CCoonnffiirrmmaattiioonn PPooiinntt
Figure 6.20
This is a fantastic example because the Bullish Butterfly pattern was such a distinct
structure.The completion of the pattern marked a critical low on the daily chart, and the price
action stabilized after completely testing the PRZ.The reversal turned at the completion of the
pattern and the RSI BAMM, and started to rally shortly thereafter.

190 Harmonic Trading: Volume Two
Chevron-Texaco (CVX): Daily
Bullish Butterfly
The chart in Figure 6.21 of the Bullish Butterfly in Chevron-Texaco shows the distinct pattern
that completed at the Confirmation Point (noted by the arrow).The stock reversed after
completely testing the pattern’s PRZ and the RSI BAMM Confirmation Point.
RRSSII BBAAMMMM
CCoonnffiirrmmaattiioonn PPooiinntt
Figure 6.21
Although the 1.27 extension of the Butterfly pattern completed slightly below the RSI BAMM
Confirmation Point, both methods identified a tight area just above $60 on the daily chart for
Chevron-Texaco as a major reversal point.

Chapter 6 RSI BAMM 191
Chevron-Texaco (CVX): Daily
Bullish Butterfly Potential Reversal Zone (PRZ) at RSI
BAMM Confirmation Point
The coordination of the pattern’s completion and the RSI BAMM Confirmation Point can be
seen even more clearly on this chart of the PRZ (see Figure 6.22).The price action stabilized
after testing this area and reversed precisely at the completion of both the pattern and the RSI
BAMM setup.
BBuulllliisshh BBuutttteerrffllyy CCoommpplleettiioonn
@@ RRSSII BBAAMMMM 11..1133
CCoonnffiirrmmaattiioonn PPooiinntt
Figure 6.22
This example of Chevron-Texaco clearly shows how the technical phenomenon of the RSI
and price divergence comes together at a critical point of the pattern’s PRZ.The Bullish
Butterfly in this example was distinct and possessed three numbers in a tight range.The ability
of the stock to stabilize after testing the RSI BAMM 1.13 extension and the pattern’s PRZ is the
ideal type of price action in most valid reversals.

192 Harmonic Trading: Volume Two
Intermediate RSI BAMM Trigger Bar Signals 1.13
Extension
The Bullish Butterfly is not the only harmonic pattern that forms at the 1.13 RSI BAMM
Confirmation Point.In fact, the Alternate Bullish Bat is the most common harmonic pattern that
reverses precisely at the 1.13 extension (see Figure 6.23).It’s important to note that the
execution of a trade from an Alternate Bat is slightly different from the standard version of the
pattern.This is primarily due to the fact that the Alternate Bat’s XA extension is a bit longer
because of the slightly varied structure.
Final Divergence Stage – RSI BAMM Confirmation Point:
Impulsive RSI retests extreme oversold limit while harmonic price
pattern completes.
A 34
C
32
30
28
B
26
0.3 8 2
2. 24
2
4-
3. 1 22
1.13 4
X 20
D
Relative Strength (RSI) B
Overbought (70)
RSI BAMM RSI BAMM
Trigger Bar Confirmation Bar
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Oversold (30)
Alternate Bearish Bat Completes at 1.13 RSI Confirmation Point
Figure 6.23
As is the case with all harmonic patterns at the RSI BAMM Confirmation Point, the
coordination of the PRZ and the final impulsive indicator retest is the technical event that
defines most valid reversals.In the Alternate Bat, the completion of the RSI BAMM and the
ultimate execution of the trade will focus almost exclusively on the 1.13 extension at the
Confirmation Point.

Chapter 6 RSI BAMM 193
Standard and Poor’s June 2009 Mini-Contract
(ES_M9): 5-Minute
Alternate Bullish Bat with Bullish RSI BAMM
The example in Figure 6.24 shows the entire Bullish RSI BAMM setup that incorporates a
Alternate Bullish Bat at the Confirmation Point.Again, the trade execution at the completion of
the Alternate Bullish Bat will be dictated by the price action at the 1.13 extension.
A
C
B
0.382
X
1.13
D
RRSSII BBAAMMMM
CCoonnffiirrmmaattiioonn PPooiinntt
RRSSII BBAAMMMM
TTrriiggggeerr BBaarr
Figure 6.24
In this example, the June 2009 S&P 500 mini-contract developed a fantastic RSI BAMM that
formed a distinct Alternate Bullish Bat at the RSI BAMM Confirmation Point.The price action
formed all of the required elements to validate the setup.

194 Harmonic Trading: Volume Two
Standard and Poor’s June 2009 Mini-Contract
(ES_M9): 5-Minute
Alternate Bullish Bat with Bullish RSI BAMM
The pattern shown on the enlarged chart in Figure 6.25 was distinct and completed in
conjunction with the RSI BAMM.In fact, the price action reversed exactly at the 1.13 extension.
A
C
B
0.382
X 1.13
D
RRSSII BBAAMMMM
RRSSII BBAAMMMM
CCoonnffiirrmmaattiioonn PPooiinntt
TTrriiggggeerr BBaarr
Figure 6.25
This example possessed all of the ideal elements of a valid RSI BAMM.The RSI formation
was nearly perfect, the pattern was distinct, and the price action reversed precisely in this
projected completion area.

Chapter 6 RSI BAMM 195
Pattern Completion Before 1.13 RSI BAMM Extension:
Bullish Bat
Although the 1.13 RSI BAMM extension is a critical technical level in the completion of the
setup, especially in the Alternate Bullish Bat, other retracement patterns such as the Bat and
the Gartley frequently develop during this final phase.The dilemma arises when these
retracement patterns complete simultaneously, as they successfully retest the oversold RSI 30
level triggering a valid buy signal (see Figure 6.26).
Final Divergence Stage – RSI BAMM Confirmation Point:
Impulsive RSI retests extreme oversold limit while bullish harmonic
34
price pattern completes.
A
C 32
30
28
26
B
0 . 5 0 24
1.618
22
0.886
X D 20
Relative Strength (RSI)
Overbought (70)
RSI BAMM RSI BAMM
Trigger Bar Confirmation Point
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Oversold (30)
Bullish Bat Completes at 0.886 RSI Confirmation Point
Figure 6.26
In this situation, the completion of the harmonic pattern takes precedence over the
requirement of testing the 1.13 RSI BAMM extension.Although the minimum support of the low
point of the RSI BAMM Trigger Bar (dotted line) offers another technical level in retracement
pattern situations such as these, the price action must be distinct and reverse after testing the
PRZ to validate the best trading opportunities.Furthermore, the pattern completion must
coincide with a successful impulsive RSI retest.Although the 1.13 RSI BAMM extension
exception makes room for retracement patterns, the coordination of the RSI and the PRZ still
employs the powerful confirmation of multiple technical methods to provide greater confirmation
of a valid reversal and a profitable move.

196 Harmonic Trading: Volume Two
Philadelphia Semiconductor Index ($SOX): Bullish Bat
On this 5-minute chart shown in Figure 6.27, the Philadelphia Semiconductor Index ($SOX)
formed a distinct the Bullish Bat that possessed ideal RSI BAMM conditions.As the $SOX
entered the final phase of the RSI BAMM Confirmation Point, the price action tested the PRZ
and completed the successful impulsive indicator retest.
RRSSII BBAAMMMM RRSSII BBAAMMMM
TTrriiggggeerr BBaarr CCoonnffiirrmmaattiioonn BBaarr
Figure 6.27
Clearly, the stock stabilized at the completion of the pattern, and the RSI was able to
reverse quickly thereafter.In these cases, the impulsive RSI test will frequently be a leading
signal at the completion of the pattern to indicate a valid reversal.

Chapter 6 RSI BAMM 197
Philadelphia Semiconductor Index ($SOX): 5-Minute
Bullish Bat Potential Reversal Zone at RSI BAMM
Confirmation Point
This close-up snapshot of the PRZ and the RSI BAMM Confirmation Point in Figure 6.28
distinctly shows how the price action stabilized after completing the pattern and reversing from
the impulsive indicator retest.
RRSSII BBAAMMMM
CCoonnffiirrmmaattiioonn BBaarr
Figure 6.28
Although the 1.13 RSI BAMM extension was only a few points lower, the price action
stabilized in the PRZ.This example of the $SOX clearly demonstrates the importance of
focusing on the harmonic numbers after the impulsive RSI test has completed.The true
advantage of this technique occurs best when the trade is executed after both conditions of the
pattern completion and the RSI BAMM are satisfied.

198 Harmonic Trading: Volume Two
Pattern Completion Before 1.13–1.618 RSI BAMM
Area: Bullish Gartley
In the case of the Bullish Gartley, illustrated in Figure 6.29, the structure of the pattern is
extremely important.Although the PRZ is typically well above the minimum 1.13 RSI BAMM
extension, this situation still relies on coordinating the completion of the pattern with the final
impulsive RSI retest.
Final Divergence Stage – RSI BAMM Confirmation Point:
Impulsive RSI retests extreme oversold limit while bullish harmonic
34
price pattern completes.
A
C 32
0.786
30
28
26
B
24
0 . 6 1 8 1.27 D 22
X 0.786 20
Relative Strength (RSI)
Overbought (70)
RSI BAMM RSI BAMM
Trigger Bar Confirmation Bar
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Oversold (30)
Bullish Gartley Completes at RSI Confirmation Point
Figure 6.29
Although the Trigger Bar low point support (dotted line) complements this area, the
coordination of these two technical events is critical in validating the best trade opportunities.

Chapter 6 RSI BAMM 199
IBM (IBM): Weekly
Bullish Gartley at RSI BAMM Confirmation Point
The fantastic Gartley pattern in IBM shown in Figure 6.30 was distinct with a precise PRZ.In
addition, the RSI BAMM conditions were ideal on this weekly chart to validate the setup, as the
Confirmation Point reversed in tandem with the completion of the pattern.
RRSSII BBAAMMMM RRSSII BBAAMMMM
TTrriiggggeerr BBaarr CCoonnffiirrmmaattiioonn PPooiinntt
Figure 6.30
It is important to note that the RSI BAMM structure of both the complex and the impulsive
indicator readings were exemplary.Although retracement patterns like the Bullish Gartley may
be difficult to execute, the conditions of the RSI BAMM can indicate the validity of the
opportunity.IBM exhibited all of the essential requirements necessary to establish the RSI
BAMM setup.In combination with a distinct Bullish Gartley, this was an ideal combination of
both approaches that defined a critical turning point in the price action.

200 Harmonic Trading: Volume Two
IBM (IBM): Weekly
Bullish Gartley Potential Reversal Zone (PRZ) at RSI
BAMM Confirmation Point
The coordination of these approaches can be seen even more clearly on the enlarged chart of
the PRZ at the RSI BAMM Completion Point shown in Figure 6.31.
RRSSII BBAAMMMM
CCoonnffiirrmmaattiioonn PPooiinntt
Figure 6.31
Retracement patterns like the Bullish Gartley can be more difficult to execute.However, the
coordination of both approaches serves to filter the best opportunities and to optimize trading
decisions.

Chapter 6 RSI BAMM 201
Bullish 5-0 Pattern Completion at RSI BAMM
Confirmation Point
The Bullish 5-0 is probably the most difficult pattern to incorporate with the RSI BAMM.This is
due simply to the fact that the completion of the pattern occurs nowhere near the minimum
1.13 RSI BAMM extension (see Figure 6.32).As is the case with all harmonic patterns in the
RSI BAMM setup, coordination of both approaches is still the key.
C
0
34
1.6 1 8 32
30
A
28
D 26
0.5 0
24
22
X
20
B
Relative Strength (RSI)
Overbought (70)
RSI BAMM RSI BAMM
Trigger Bar Confirmation Point
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Oversold (30)
Bullish 5-0 Completes at RSI Confirmation Point
Figure 6.32
As is the case of the Bullish Gartley, the 5-0 pattern requires a distinct structure that must
complete in tandem with the RSI BAMM Confirmation Point.It is important to focus on the
completion of the impulsive RSI retest, as this will typically be a significant signal within the
PRZ of the pattern.

202 Harmonic Trading: Volume Two
British Pound (GBP_A0-FX): 5-Minute
Bullish 5-0 at RSI BAMM Confirmation Point
The Pound formed a Bullish 5-0 pattern on this intra-day chart that completed at the
Confirmation Point of a distinct RSI BAMM (see Figure 6.33).Although the 5-0 pattern may
have seemed of little consequence after the price action declined sharply into the PRZ, the
completion of the RSI BAMM Confirmation Point pinpointed the support and marked a critical
short-term low.
0 C
1.618
A
D
X 0.50
B
RRSSII BBAAMMMM
RRSSII BBAAMMMM CCoonnffiirrmmaattiioonn PPooiinntt
TTrriiggggeerr BBaarr
Figure 6.33

Chapter 6 RSI BAMM 203
British Pound (GBP_A0-FX): 5-Minute
Bullish 5-0 Potential Reversal Zone (PRZ)
at RSI BAMM Confirmation Point
The chart of the PRZ of the 5-0 pattern in Figure 6.34 shows how the price action stabilized
and reversed immediately after testing the RSI BAMM Confirmation Point.The impulsive RSI
retest was the ultimate trigger, as the price action rallied sharply after the indicator bounced
from the 30 level.
D
RRSSII BBAAMMMM
CCoonnffiirrmmaattiioonn PPooiinntt
Figure 6.34
When incorporating the 1.13 RSI BAMM extension with harmonic pattern completions, the
key to successful trade executions is coordinating these two technical events to optimize
trading decisions and to filter the best opportunities.In the example of the Pound, the price
action provided early clues of a valid reversal as the price action held immediately after testing
the entire PRZ.After covering all possible patterns that involve the 1.13 RSI BAMM
Confirmation Point, it’s now time to cover all possible patterns within the context of the 1.618
extension.

204 Harmonic Trading: Volume Two
1.618 Extension at RSI BAMM Confirmation Point
In the Bullish RSI BAMM, the general rule for the Confirmation Point extension must focus on
the location of the Trigger Bar, as it relates to the extreme prior low (see Figure 6.35).If the
Bullish RSI BAMM Trigger Bar IS the extreme low, the 1.618 extension is utilized to quantify the
Confirmation Point and the execution area for the trade.
34
A
32
30
28
26
X
24
22
1.618
B 20
Relative Strength (RSI)
Overbought (70)
RSI BAMM
RSI BAMM
Confirmation Point
Trigger Bar
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Oversold (30)
Figure 6.35
Although other factors will be considered, the importance of the extreme low to signal a
1.618 RSI BAMM extension helps to define the ultimate execution point for the trade.Two
patterns—the Bullish Crab and the Deep Bullish Crab—utilize the 1.618 extension.Regardless
of which Crab defines the PRZ, the crucial technical event occurs when the price action tests
this area at the same time it completes the RSI BAMM Confirmation Bar.

Chapter 6 RSI BAMM 205
Extreme RSI BAMM Trigger Bar Signals a 1.618
Extension: Bullish Crab
When the RSI BAMM Trigger Bar is the extreme low, the corresponding retest and the
Confirmation Point will occur at the 1.618 extension (see Figure 6.36).In combination with a
distinct bullish pattern such as the Crab, the 1.618 projection represents an immensely critical
harmonic support point.
A C
34
32
30
8
1
0.6 B
28
2.
2 26
4
X -
3. 24
6
1
1.618 8 22
D 20
Relative Strength (RSI)
Overbought (70)
RSI BAMM RSI BAMM
Trigger Bar Completion Point
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Oversold (30)
Bullish Crab Completes at 1.618 RSI Confirmation Point
Figure 6.36
Although these situations can be difficult to distinguish, distinct pattern formations in the final
phase of the RSI BAMM provide significant indication of the validity of the opportunity and act
as a confirmation signal for the setup.Due to the extended nature of the 1.618 extension, the
Bullish Crab will frequently possess volatile price action that can reverse sharply after testing
the entire PRZ.

206 Harmonic Trading: Volume Two
Coca-Cola (KO): Daily
Bullish Crab at RSI BAMM Completion Point
In the example in Figure 6.37, Coca-Cola formed a distinct Bullish Crab that possessed an
ideal RSI BAMM setup.The pattern started to form after the complex RSI structure was
completed.After the initial bounce and retest to the RSI midpoint 50 level, the stock
consolidated and eventually declined lower while forming a distinct pattern.
A
C
0.6 1 8
B
X
3.14
1.618
D
RRSSII BBAAMMMM
TTrriiggggeerr PPooiinntt RRSSII BBAAMMMM
CCoonnffiirrmmaattiioonn PPooiinntt
Figure 6.37
Although the RSI Confirmation Point experienced a deeper retest than is typical, the
impulsive reading did not exceed the lowest point of the complex indicator formation.
Furthermore, the PRZ accurately defined the precise area that comprised less than a 1-point
range for the execution of the long position.

Chapter 6 RSI BAMM 207
Coca-Cola (KO): Daily
Bullish Crab Potential Reversal Zone (PRZ)
at RSI BAMM Completion Point
The enlarged chart in Figure 6.38 of the PRZ at the RSI BAMM Confirmation Point shows an
ideal situation where the completion of the pattern and the impulsive indicator retest combined
to mark a critical turning point on this daily chart.
D
RRSSII BBAAMMMM
CCoonnffiirrmmaattiioonn PPooiinntt
Figure 6.38
It is important to note that the stock did not reverse until the entire PRZ of the Bullish Crab
was tested.Again, this is where the coordination of the RSI BAMM Confirmation Point at the
completion of the pattern is tremendously advantageous in optimizing trade decisions and in
defining the best area to execute the trade.In the case of Coke, the 1.618 extension required a
few more weeks until the execution signal was triggered.

208 Harmonic Trading: Volume Two
Deep Bullish Crab at RSI BAMM Completion Point
In the same manner as the Bullish Crab, the Deep Bullish Crab employs a 1.618 extension at
the RSI BAMM Confirmation Point (see Figure 6.39).Again, the RSI BAMM Trigger Bar must
be the extreme low of the pattern.
34
A
C 32
30
28
0.886
26
X
B 2. 24
2
4-
1.6183.
6
1
8
22
D 20
Relative Strength (RSI)
Overbought (70)
RSI BAMM RSI BAMM
Trigger Bar Completion Point
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Oversold (30)
Deep Bullish Crab Completes at 1.618 RSI Confirmation Point
Figure 6.39
In my opinion, the Bullish Crab is the most prevalent pattern that forms with the 1.618 RSI
BAMM Confirmation Point.Although many Deep Bullish Crabs present excellent opportunities,
they don’t seem to materialize as frequently as the regular version.

Chapter 6 RSI BAMM 209
Japanese Yen (JPY_A0-FX): 60-Minute
Deep Bullish Crab at RSI BAMM Confirmation Point
The 60-minute chart of the Yen in Figure 6.40 shows an excellent intra-day RSI BAMM setup.
When applying the RSI BAMM to intra-day trading situations, the 15-minute or 60-minute
intervals seem to produce the best results, but it is important to remember that these are still
short-term day trades.
A
C
0.886 B
X
2.
2
1.618 4
D
RRSSII BBAAMMMM
CCoonnffiirrmmaattiioonn PPooiinntt
RRSSII BBAAMMMM
CCoonnffiirrmmaattiioonn PPooiinntt
Figure 6.40
Although RSI BAMM setups that materialize on daily and weekly charts usually possess
more significant reversal zones, these typically take longer to complete.But I thought it was
important to show an example of a day trading situation.

210 Harmonic Trading: Volume Two
Japanese Yen (JPY_A0-FX): 60-Minute
Deep Bullish Crab Potential Reversal Zone (PRZ)
at RSI BAMM Confirmation Point
In the Yen example shown in Figure 6.41, the stock formed a Deep Bullish Crab that reversed
exactly at the 1.618 extension.The completion of the pattern occurred simultaneously with the
RSI BAMM Confirmation Point.
0.886
B
2.
2
4
1.618
D
RRSSII BBAAMMMM
CCoonnffiirrmmaattiioonn PPooiinntt
Figure 6.41
It is important to note that the coordination between the RSI BAMM Confirmation Point and
the pattern’s completion should occur closer to each other in shorter-term day trading type
situations.Although longer-term setups such as a 60-minute or a daily opportunity may require
more time for the entire scenario to complete, 1-minute and 3-minute opportunities should
exhibit more precise price action and reverse closer in proximity to each other.In essence,
short-term trading situations require stricter application of the rules and allow less room for
variation.

Chapter 6 RSI BAMM 211
RSI BAMM Confirmation Point—Reversal Acceleration
Trigger
There is an additional technical trigger that serves as secondary confirmation of a valid
reversal.Although this final trigger does not develop in every situation, when this additional
structural formation develops in the RSI reading at the final test of the Confirmation Point, it
typically represents an area of acceleration of the reversal.
Bullish Confirmation Point—Reversal Acceleration
Trigger
The most important aspect of the RSI BAMM Confirmation Point is that both the indicator
structure and the price action must demonstrate a decisive continuation of the reversal trend
(see Figure 6.42).In many cases following the completion of the RSI BAMM Confirmation
Point, the indicator structure will form a specific W-type formation above the oversold 30 level.
This structure serves as a technical acceleration point that frequently marks the beginning of a
decisive new price move.
34
A
32
30
28
26
24
X
22
1.13-1.618
B RSI BAMM 20
Acceleration
Relative Strength (RSI) Point
Overbought (70)
RSI BAMM RSI BAMM
Confirmation
Trigger Bar
Bar
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Oversold (30)
Figure 6.42

212 Harmonic Trading: Volume Two
This magnified illustration of the RSI BAMM Confirmation Point clearly shows the ideal
indicator structure that serves as a penultimate technical level for the entire setup.It is
important to note that the Acceleration Trigger of the additional RSI structure is an immediate
signal for the reversal.Sometimes, the initial pullback following a reversal from the RSI BAMM
Confirmation Point may only be one or two price bars after the indicator structure rallies back
above the 30 level.Despite the pause in the price action, the internal dynamics of the RSI
typically gain strength at this point and signal a quick acceleration of the new trend.
Although waiting for this extra RSI signal to execute a trade may result in paying a slightly
higher price, the Acceleration Trigger does provide a reliable sign of a valid reversal at hand.
Furthermore, waiting for this breakout trigger prevents executions at invalid RSI BAMM
Confirmation Points, where the impulsive test at the 30 level flounders and does not provide
decisive reversal continuation.In these cases, it is important to act appropriately and to exit the
trade at a small loss or break even due to the fact that the price action languishes after
completing the RSI BAMM Acceleration Trigger.Essentially, the price action should move
quickly and decidedly after the final acceleration is triggered.The price bar that completes the
breakout of the W-type structure above the oversold 30 level in the RSI indicator reading will
typically mark the acceleration point of the new reversal trend.
When this last trigger materializes, it definitely creates a “do-or-die”situation.After satisfying
all conditions of the RSI BAMM and successfully reversing from the impulse test at the
Confirmation Point, this last little caveat of the indicator reading possesses powerful price
action implications.In fact, this last confirmation trigger within the final phase of the RSI BAMM
represents the most precise technical setup within the entire Harmonic Trading approach.In no
other technical situation of this entire methodology does the “do-or-die”scenario dictate an
immediate reaction in the price action.Hence, the Acceleration Trigger represents the
realization of a gamut of technical conditions to generate a valid trade signal.
The combination of these measurement techniques of harmonic patterns and the ability of
the RSI BAMM to define divergent areas of price action represent the most complex system of
technical conditions within the Harmonic Trading approach.

Chapter 6 RSI BAMM 213
The final phase of the RSI BAMM represents a powerful technical measuring technique in
its own right (see Figure 6.43).When harmonic patterns converge at the Confirmation Point of
the RSI BAMM, the technical information garnered from this approach serves as an immensely
accurate consensus reading to validate the setup.
34
32
30
28
26
1.13-1.618
24
22
B 20
Relative Strength (RSI) RSI BAMM
Acceleration Point
Overbought (70)
RSI BAMM
Confirmation
Bar
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Oversold (30)
Figure 6.43

214 Harmonic Trading: Volume Two
IBM (IBM): Weekly
Bullish Gartley Potential Reversal Zone (PRZ) at RSI
BAMM Confirmation Point with Acceleration Trigger
Referring back to the example of IBM, the stock rallied after testing the entire PRZ at the RSI
BAMM Completion Point.The second arrow from the left points to the price bar that marked the
acceleration point in the reversal (see Figure 6.44).
RRSSII BBAAMMMM
CCoonnffiirrmmaattiioonn
PPooiinntt
RRSSII BBAAMMMM
AAcccceelleerraattiioonn
PPooiinntt
Figure 6.44
The interesting aspect of this situation is that the Acceleration Point signaled a valid long
position while the stock was still trading within its PRZ.In this case, the additional confirmation
of the Acceleration Point triggered the trade before the reversal began in earnest.Although
waiting for the Acceleration Point to develop may result in delayed trade executions, these are
very effective signals in most valid reversals.

Chapter 6 RSI BAMM 215
Bullish RSI BAMM Violations and Stop Loss
Considerations
After defining the entire range of the RSI BAMM Confirmation Point extension and harmonic
pattern completion points, the only consideration beyond the execution is the stop loss limit.
Again, the stop loss determination will also include the price levels that are defined by the
larger harmonic patterns included in the trading setup.However, from a pure RSI BAMM
perspective, the key validation truly occurs beyond the Completion Point extension.The stop
loss is typically a combination of the price limit established by the RSI BAMM extension and the
specific pattern completion that occurs in the same area as the Confirmation Point.
RSI BAMM violations involve two factors that determine the validity of the setup.First, the
RSI BAMM extension—whether it is a 1.13 or a 1.618—is the primary technical level that
dictates the validity of the setup.Although it is important to differentiate between whether the
RSI BAMM utilizes a 1.13 or a 1.618 extension, the validation of the technical phenomenon
becomes questionable beyond the 2.00 extension of the final move for either situation.But, the
price action at the RSI BAMM extension at the Completion Point should be quite precise, as
valid reversals usually do not exceed these areas by much.As a general rule, the 1.13
extension typically employs the area beyond the 1.618 to define its stop loss zone.In
comparison, those situations that trigger a 1.618 extension will typically define the area beyond
the 2.0 as a violation of the setup.
As is the case for harmonic pattern failures, price action that violates these price levels,
especially on the first test, should raise a red flag that the primary trend is quite strong.Most
important, the area defined by the RSI BAMM is truly a “do or die”price level that does not
leave much room for discretion.I discussed pattern violations thoroughly in Harmonic Trading:
Volume One.Although I will not review those strategies in detail in this book, the essence of
pattern violations is usually witnessed after the price action has tested the entire PRZ.
The tandem violation of the relative RSI BAMM extension and the pattern’s PRZ is a definite
signal that the setup has failed.However, there are many instances where violations will offer
warnings in the form of strong price action that provide early signs of an impending failure at
hand.In many cases, the price action will violate a bullish PRZ that is in the upper range of the
entire harmonic support area, signaling the violation even before the RSI BAMM extension is
tested.Again, the preferred situation in most violations is price action that declines sharply
throughthe combined harmonic areaof both the relative RSI BAMM extension and the
pattern’s PRZ.

216 Harmonic Trading: Volume Two
Standard & Poor’s 500 March 2010 Mini-Contract
(ES_H0): 15-Minute
Bullish Crab and Bullish RSI BAMM Failure
The Standard & Poor’s 500 March 2010 Mini-Contract formed this distinct RSI BAMM on the
15-minute chart (see Figure 6.45).The RSI BAMM Trigger Bar was the initial low, which
established a projected 1.618 extension at the Confirmation Point.
A
C
0.618
B
2.
6
X 1
8
1.618
D
PRZ
Violated
RRSSII vviioollaatteess pprriioorr
rreeaaddiinngg aanndd nnoottaann
iimmppuullssiivvee ssttrruuccttuurree..
Figure 6.45
Although the RSI structure was exemplary, the price action failed to stabilize at this
harmonic support.The breakdown in this area was overwhelming and the distinct Bullish Crab
reinforced the importance of the 1.618 extension as the defining level in this setup.

Chapter 6 RSI BAMM 217
Standard & Poor’s 500 March 2010 Mini-Contract
(ES_H0): 15-Minute
Bullish Crab and Bullish RSI BAMM Failure
The enlarged chart in Figure 6.46 clearly shows the violation of the pattern’s PRZ and the RSI
BAMM extension.The price action hit all the numbers on the initial test of the PRZ but quickly
continued lower, sinking below the 1.618 extension.
1.618
D
PRZ
Violated
RRSSII vviioollaatteess pprriioorr
rreeaaddiinngg aanndd nnoottaann
iimmppuullssiivvee ssttrruuccttuurree..
Figure 6.46
The intra-day price action clearly violated the pattern’s PRZ.This should have served as a
severe warning sign well before the 1.618 RSI BAMM extension was violated.This example
clearly demonstrated a failed RSI BAMM setup.The critical aspect, as is the case with most
violations, is the inability of the price action to stabilize on the secondary test of the indicator at
the completion point of the pattern despite a clear prior complex RSI structure.

218 Harmonic Trading: Volume Two
Bearish RSI BAMM
The Bearish RSI BAMM begins with a complex reading above 70.Referring to the RSI BAMM
illustration in Figure 6.47, the entire process requires several elements to validate this specific
scenario.Although the entire illustration might seem a bit overwhelming upon first examination,
this represents the ideal RSI BAMM model.I recommend that you thoroughly study this
material before employing these strategies in your live trading.Each step will be broken down
to illustrate the ideal RSI BAMM model.Obviously, the ideal situation does not occur every
time.It is important to remember that the real application of the RSI BAMM principles will
require a degree of flexibility.
B
X 1.13-1.618 34
32
30
28
26
24
22
Final Divergence Stage –
RSI BAMM
Trigger Bar A RSI BAMM Confirmation Point 20
Relative Strength (RSI)
Overbought (70)
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Oversold (30)
Figure 6.47
The ideal model does present all of the critical elements that clearly explain the
effectiveness of this strategy.But, it will take a period of study to fully comprehend all aspects
of the RSI BAMM approach.In much the same manner that the initial rules of harmonic pattern
identification and differentiation may have seemed overwhelming, the RSI BAMM rules—albeit
a bit complex upon first study—provide a coherent and comprehensive method for accurately
measuring potential areas of divergence.Furthermore, it is essential to maintain the patience to
execute only those trades that possess all required elements that validate a trade signal based
upon the rules of the RSI BAMM setup.Again, it is important to remember that this illustration
represents an ideal modeland a framework to provide a set of guidelines that attempt to

Chapter 6 RSI BAMM 219
quantify precise technical events and to optimize overall trading decisions.However, the RSI
BAMM strategy in combination with harmonic patterns effectively validates PRZs and improves
the overall accuracy of the entire Harmonic Trading approach.The following example of the
British Pound (versus the U.S.Dollar) clearly demonstrates these concepts.
British Pound/USD (GBP_A0-FX): Weekly
Bearish RSI BAMM
The weekly chart of the British Pound in Figure 6.48 exemplifies the ideal RSI BAMM
approach.It is important to study this chart as a model to distinguish and to validate RSI
BAMM setups.This situation required more than a year to develop, but it possessed all of the
necessary elements to establish the ultimate reversal at the RSI BAMM Confirmation Point on
the weekly chart.
B
X
A RRSSII BBAAMMMM
CCoonnffiirrmmaattiioonn PPooiinntt
RRSSII BBAAMMMM
TTrriiggggeerr BBaarr
Figure 6.48

220 Harmonic Trading: Volume Two
Step 1: Initial RSI Test of Extreme Bearish Limit
In the Bearish RSI BAMM scenario, the first step is to identify price action that possesses an
RSI reading in the extreme zone above 70.As I mentioned previously, the 70 level for the
overbought limit, as well as the 30 level to define the oversold area, were first outlined by
Welles Wilder in his book New Concepts and Trading Systems.In addition, a 14-period average
is calculated from his approach.
Step 2: Complete a Bearish M-Type Complex RSI
Structure
The initial focus should be on the formation of the indicator readings in the entire extreme
overbought range rather than looking for a specific numeric level.As I outlined earlier in this
chapter for the bullish scenario, it is important to differentiate the two types of indicator
structures that form at RSI extremes.
Two Types of Bearish Indicator Structures
In much the same vein as harmonic patterns, it is important to classify the general types of
indicator structures that form in an overbought RSI area.Although each type could be assigned
more specific classifications, indicator readings form either an impulsive or a complex structure.
It has been my experience that most bearish RSI readings that are above 70 will be impulsive
in nature and do not yield the required structure to be considered a valid setup.However, valid
complex structures that are correctly identified offer a tremendous technical advantage because
this situation is especially unique and represents a vital potential reversal area within the overall
trend of the price action.
Sometimes, a complex RSI BAMM formation can be frustrating because the setup may not
ideally unfold following the initial trigger.This can be particularly frustrating when a potential
setup is followed for quite some time and fails to adhere to the RSI BAMM model.In the same
manner that not all patterns form ideally, it is important to wait for only those situations that
clearly provide all the required elements to validate the setup.Regardless, the primary focus of
the initial step is to identify a complex the RSI BAMM M-type structure in the extreme area.

Chapter 6 RSI BAMM 221
Bearish Impulsive Indicator Structures
A bearish impulsive indicator structure reflects price action that is experiencing a quick test of
the extreme overbought resistance area, usually reversing quickly without any consolidating
price action (see Figure 6.49).Since the price action commonly reverses sharply in these
cases, the RSI rolls over and sinks below the 70 level typically within one or two price bars of
the first overbought reading.
34
32
30
28
26
24
22
20
Relative Strength (RSI)
Overbought (70)
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Oversold (30)
Figure 6.49
Although such impulsive formations may test the extreme bearish RSI level, it is important to
focus on the nature of the indicator structure and not necessarily the exact numeric reading (as
long as it is above the 70 limit).The exact indicator level is critical in quantifying the extreme
state of RSI, but the general indicator formation is the critical factor, as it serves as the
essential trigger to validate a potential trade opportunity.
Impulsive structures can be effective technical measures as they can serve to confirm
bearish patterns and other trading signals.But it is important to note that the signals generated
from extreme RSI readings do not constitute a comprehensive approach to trading the market.
As mentioned previously, I believe that this is a common misconception for Relative Strength
and most other technical indicators and oscillators.In my opinion, such technical measures
must be utilized as a complementary methodology rather than as an exclusive approach.A
Relative Strength reading above 70 does not automatically signify a trade opportunity.In fact,

222 Harmonic Trading: Volume Two
certain extreme impulse structures can signal significant continuations of the predominant
trend.These strategies will be covered later in the book.For now, it is important to keep in mind
the general types of structures.Furthermore, as is the case with all technical indicators, other
methods must be employed to validate any potential trade opportunity on a multiple
confirmation basis.
British Pound/USD (GBP_A0-FX): Weekly
Bearish Impulse Indicator Structure
Figure 6.50 shows the impulsive RSI in the British Pound that reversed sharply after exceeding
the 70 level.
Figure 6.50
It is important to note how the price action stalled after testing the extreme overbought area.
In this case, the price action reversed decidedly after the impulsive RSI test was completed.

Chapter 6 RSI BAMM 223
Bearish Complex Indicator Structure
A complex structure represents an indicator formation that initially exceeds the 70 level and
forms an M-type structure entirely in the extreme area (see Figure 6.51).The complex structure
remains above the extreme 70 limit longer than an impulsive formation, and it should be distinct
from other types of indicator readings.
34
32
30
28
26
24
22
20
Relative Strength (RSI)
Overbought (70)
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Oversold (30)
Figure 6.51
Despite representing a more significant technical condition than an impulsive formation, the
bearish complex structure is typically an early trading signal.In fact, it is common for price
action to accelerate to the upside while the complex formation of the RSI reading completes.
Furthermore, the initial reaction to the complex RSI structure may not seem to indicate a
change in trend due to such strong price action.Despite this perceived strength, the validity of
the entire RSI BAMM technique is not determined until the M-type structures has entirely
formed in the overbought area above 70.Although the advanced concepts will be clearly
presented later in this chapter, it is important to keep in mind that a complex indicator reading
is merely the starting point for the entire approach not the defining event of the RSI BAMM
methodology.

224 Harmonic Trading: Volume Two
British Pound/USD (GBP_A0-FX): Weekly
Bearish Complex Indicator Structure
The example of a complex RSI structure in the British Pound shown in Figure 6.52 possessed
all of the necessary elements to establish the RSI BAMM.As this chart example demonstrates,
the initial test of the complex indicator formation typically experiences an acceleration of the
predominant trend.Despite the perceived strength of the rally, the complex formation
establishes the beginning of the most critical aspect of the entire RSI BAMM methodology—the
divergence phase.
Figure 6.52
The bearish divergence occurs when the RSI reading weakens while the price action
continues to rally.Although the price action may seem to be maintaining its current uptrend,
valid complex RSI structures usually trigger a reversal sooner rather later and mark a critical
area for a potential change in the overall direction.Although a few other elements must fall into
place for the RSI BAMM to be validated, the complex RSI structure is the starting point for the
entire process.Most important, this is an early signal, and it is critical to wait for the M-type
structure to break under the 70 line.After the RSI formation has been completed, the other
considerations of potential pattern completions and specific RSI BAMM harmonic

Chapter 6 RSI BAMM 225
measurements can be projected to determine the optimal reversal area.This leads us to our
next step, which includes the defining and measuring of the price level that triggers this
breakdown.
Step 3: Define the RSI Trigger Bar
After defining the complex RSI formation, the next step requires a measurement of the price
area where the M-type indicator structure has completed.The price bar that causes the
complex RSI indicator reading to complete the M-type structure and to decline below the
extreme 70 limit is known as the RSI BAMM Trigger Bar (see Figure 6.53).
34
32
30
28
26
24
RSI BAMM 22
Trigger Bar
20
Relative Strength (RSI)
Overbought (70)
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Oversold (30)
Figure 6.53
After identifying the RSI BAMM Trigger Bar, it is critical to mark the top of this price bar by
drawing an extended line from the peak, projecting the resistance to the right of the chart, as
illustrated in Figure 6.53.This RSI BAMM Trigger Bar resistance level serves as a minimum
technical area for the corresponding retest and the anticipated execution area of the completion
of the final phase of the RSI BAMM.From a general perspective, the RSI BAMM Trigger Bar
denotes the starting point for the critical divergence phase that the entire methodology is
attempting to define and to quantify.Again, the completion of the complex RSI structure is only
a starting point of the process.Although there are strategies that I will present later in this
chapter to capitalize on the initial indicator breakdown, from a broader perspective the RSI
Trigger Bar can reveal a great deal about the validity of the setup and the state of the potential

226 Harmonic Trading: Volume Two
price action.For now, the most critical element of the RSI BAMM approach begins after the
indicator has reversed from the overbought reading by completing the complex M-type
structure.
British Pound/USD (GBP_A0-FX): Weekly
Bearish RSI BAMM Trigger Bar
The position of the Bearish RSI BAMM Trigger Bar in relation to the prior extreme high point is
critical.Although its significance will be further explained later in this section, it is important to
remember that the RSI BAMM Trigger Bar typically will be the price bar that is the prior peak of
the current move or within a few intervals of the extreme high.This is critical, as the Trigger
Bar’s position will determine the execution area for the corresponding retest and completion of
the RSI BAMM.
The RSI BAMM Trigger Bar in the British Pound example in Figure 6.54 is clearly marked.
After drawing a horizontal line to the right from the top of the Trigger Bar, the complex RSI
structure defined the 1.8750 area as the first critical resistance level for the ultimate retest at
the Confirmation Point.
RRSSII BBAAMMMM
TTrriiggggeerr BBaarr
Figure 6.54

Chapter 6 RSI BAMM 227
Step 4: Reaction of RSI and Price
After the Trigger Bar has been established, the initial reaction from the completion of the
complex RSI structure and the price must be monitored closely.After topping out in the extreme
overbought area above 70, the price action typically experiences a quick and decisive pullback.
This is typically evidenced by a steady short-term downtrend (see Figure 6.55).
1.13-1.618 B
34
X
32
e:
c 30
n
e
g
Final
Di Prv ie cr
e
U p 2
2
28
6
4
A 22
20
ORe vl ea rt biv oe
u
S ghtr te (n 7g 0t )h (RSI) Final
Divergence:
RSI
Down
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Oversold (30)
Figure 6.55
The critical divergence phase begins after this brief correction, which is normally marked by
a breakout of the short-term downtrend line.This breakout is critical in defining the beginning
of the divergence phase of the entire RSI BAMM methodology.Although I will review the other
elements in more detail, this breakout typically will retest the RSI BAMM Trigger Bar area
and rally to either a 1.13 or 1.618 extension while testing the extreme RSI overbought area
above 70.

228 Harmonic Trading: Volume Two
British Pound/USD (GBP_A0-FX): Weekly
Reaction of RSI and Price
After breaking out of the short-term downtrend line, the British Pound started to rally for the
final divergence phase.The final rally included an impulsive retest of the 70 limit (see Figure
6.56).
Price up to Nominal High
B
X
A
RRSSII DDiivveerrggeennccee:: RRSSII DDoowwnn
Figure 6.56
As the RSI and the price react during this divergence phase, a few technical aspects must
unfold to validate the final test and ultimate execution of the entire setup.

Chapter 6 RSI BAMM 229
Specific Type of Retest
One of the most critical aspects of this divergence phase occurs during the initial reaction
following the complex RSI structure completion.After the Trigger Bar has been established,
the RSI reading MUST decline to at least the 50 level before completing the final divergence—
where the price rallies while the RSI fails to exceed the readings established by the prior
complex indicator formation.Although there is room for interpretation as the RSI reading may
exceed the 50 level on this initial reaction, it serves as a minimum requirement that precedes
the corresponding retest of the resistance area established by the RSI BAMM (see Figure
6.57).
B
X 1.13-1.618 34
32
30
28
26
24
22
RSI BAMM
RSI BAMM
Trigger Bar A Confirmation Point 20
Relative Strength (RSI)
Overbought (70)
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Oversold (30)
RSI must retrace to 50% mid-point line before
completing RSI BAMM Confirmation Point.
Figure 6.57
Again, this specific type of retest offers other short-term trading opportunities that I will
explain a bit later in this chapter.But, the important aspect of this element of the process is a
minimum retest to the mid-point (50) level of the RSI.At this point in the RSI BAMM
methodology, the price action typically declines fractionally while the indicator experiences a
sharp correction.So, it is essential to focus on the indicator reading.After the mid-point 50 limit
is tested, the final divergence phase of the entire approach will begin.

230 Harmonic Trading: Volume Two
British Pound/USD (GBP_A0-FX): Weekly
Specific Type of Retest: RSI Mid-Point (50 Limit)
Requirement
Following the initial reaction after the complex RSI formation, the British Pound declined
sharply in price and, more importantly, in the RSI reading (see Figure 6.58).Although the setup
consolidated at the 50 line for several months, the eventual breakout from the initial downtrend
line and the rally in the RSI marked the beginning of the final phase to complete the RSI
BAMM Confirmation Point.
B
X
A
RRSSII BBAAMMMM RRSSII BBAAMMMM
TTrriiggggeerr BBaarr CCoonnffiirrmmaattiioonn PPooiinntt
RRSSII mmuusstt rreetteesstt 5500%% mmiidd--ppooiinntt lliinnee bbeeffoorree RRSSII BBAAMMMM ccoonnffiirrmmaattiioonn ppooiinntt..
Figure 6.58

Chapter 6 RSI BAMM 231
Step 5:The Final Phase—Divergence of RSI Versus
Price
Figure 6.59 clearly shows the concept of this final divergence.As the RSI and the price retest
their prior respective resistance points, they diverge in direction.As the RSI reading reverses
after testing the 70 limit, the price action “spills over”the prior high in an attempt to continue the
predominant trend.The “spillover”rally usually experiences a brief move above the prior high to
either a 1.13 or 1.618 extension of the initial breakdown (X-A).
1.13-1.618
B
p 34
X U
e
ric 32
P
e: 30
c
n
e
rg 28
e
v
Di
26
al
n
Fi 24
A 22
20
ORe vl ea rt biv oe
u
S ghtr te (n 7g 0t )h (RSI) Final
Divergence:
RSI
Down
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Oversold (30)
Figure 6.59
Later in this chapter, I will outline the rules that distinguish which harmonic projection works
with the final divergence phase.But, the beauty of this technical phenomenon is that the
breakout is inherently flawed due to the RSI failure, as the “internal strength”no longer
supports the predominant trend.It is in situations like these where the general technical
divergence between the RSI and the price offers tremendous trading opportunities.

232 Harmonic Trading: Volume Two
British Pound/USD (GBP_A0-FX): Weekly
Final Divergence Phase of RSI Versus Price
The British Pound clearly exemplifies the ideal divergent technical situation.After completing
the complex RSI structure, the price action rallied to a nominal new high (see Figure 6.60).
FFiinnaall DDiivveerrggeennccee:: PPrriiccee UUpp
FFiinnaall DDiivveerrggeennccee:: RRSSII DDoowwnn
Figure 6.60
The secondary test of the RSI failed to exceed the prior reading.Moreover, the impulsive
nature of the test further underscored the weakness, as the internal strength of the last rally
barely penetrated the overbought limit above 70.The price bar that triggers the completion of
the impulsive indicator retest is called the Bearish RSI BAMM Confirmation Bar.

Chapter 6 RSI BAMM 233
Bearish RSI BAMM Confirmation Bar
The critical divergence between the price and the RSI can be seen in Figure 6.61.The RSI
BAMM Confirmation Bar usually completes at either a 1.13 or a 1.618 extension of the prior
decline and defines the divergence point for the entire setup.As the trend of the price action
continues up (notice uptrend arrow), the RSI reading fails to continue higher, completing an
impulsive structure that defines the RSI BAMM Confirmation Bar.
B
34
1.13-1.618
32
30
28
26
24
22
RSI BAMM Confirmation Point
A 20
----------------------------------
Figure 6.61
If the RSI Confirmation Bar is a valid resistance signal indicating a reversal at hand, typically
the price action will decline quickly after exceeding the initial prior high level.Although I will
outline the advantages of utilizing Harmonic Trading techniques of pattern recognition and
Fibonacci measurement strategies with the RSI BAMM, it is important to examine this technical
phenomenon on its own before trying to understand the advanced concepts.Most important,
the simple divergence as marked by the Bearish RSI BAMM Confirmation Bar provides an
effective technical situation that can be further refined with other trading strategies to define
profitable opportunities.

234 Harmonic Trading: Volume Two
British Pound/USD (GBP_A0-FX): Weekly
Bearish RSI BAMM Confirmation Bar
The illustration of the British Pound in Figure 6.62 clearly shows the divergence of the RSI
versus the price.
B
RRSSII BBAAMMMM
A CCoonnffiirrmmaattiioonn PPooiinntt
Figure 6.62
The price action at the RSI BAMM Confirmation Point reveals a great deal about the
strength of the predominant trend and defines the trading opportunity at hand.In essence, the
divergent price action at the Confirmation Point rallies in a “last gasp”from the indicator
reading.However, the extent of this “last gasp”must be determined, and specific harmonic
measurement techniques provide the tools necessary to further refine these technical levels to
define excellent trading opportunities.

Chapter 6 RSI BAMM 235
Review of RSI and Price
Before examining the final divergence stage, let’s review the steps for the RSI BAMM up to this
point.The entire process started with a complex RSI structure.Following this completion, the
divergence phase begins, as the RSI reading pulls back to at least the 50 level.After mid-level
RSI check back, the price action breaks out of the short-term downtrend line of the initial
reaction to initiate the final divergence phase (see Figure 6.63).
1.13-1.618 34
32
30
28
26
Final Divergence Phase - 24
Confirmation Point:
RSI retests extreme limit 22
RSI BAMM
while price rallies to a
Trigger Bar 20
nominal new high.
Relative Strength (RSI)
Overbought (70)
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Oversold (30) Corresponding Reaction of Relative
Strength Indicator (RSI) to a
Minimum Retest of the 50% Line
Figure 6.63
It is important to note that the entire RSI BAMM concept is encompassed within this retest
of the resistance, as established by the top of the RSI BAMM Trigger Bar.Remember, this is a
situation where the Relative Strength is providing an early signal to the end of the predominant
trend.Although this signal may be the end of the trend technically, the price action usually
experiences one last rally to retest the resistance area established by the complex RSI
structure.When the price continues to rally as the RSI fails to exceed its prior resistance
established by the complex reading, the final divergence phase has begun and the
Confirmation Point is near completion.

236 Harmonic Trading: Volume Two
British Pound/USD (GBP_A0-FX): Weekly
Reaction of RSI and Price
The British Pound example possesses all of the ideal elements and price action that
encompasses the RSI BAMM methodology.Figure 6.64 illustrates all of the stages of the RSI
divergence.However, the last phase of this approach employs advanced harmonic
measurement techniques and other trading strategies to determine the validity of the setup and
to quantify the price level for the entry of the trade.
PPrriiccee rraalllliieess ttoo aa nnoommiinnaall nneeww hhiigghh
wwhhiillee tthhee RRSSII rreetteessttss tthhee OOvveerrbboouugghhtt
lliimmiitt bbuutt rreevveerrsseess bbeellooww tthhee pprriioorr hhiigghh..
Figure 6.64
Essentially, the various technical measurements are employed to determine an advanced
PRZ, where both RSI BAMM projections and harmonic patterns complete.Although this may
seem a bit complex upon first study, the overwhelming advantage of the combination of
harmonic patterns at the completion of the RSI BAMM pinpoints critical technical levels and
defines incredibly accurate trading opportunities.

Chapter 6 RSI BAMM 237
Step 6: Bearish RSI BAMM Confirmation Point: 1.13
Versus 1.618
In the development of the RSI BAMM, I was challenged for quite some time to discern the
correct extension to employ for the Confirmation Point.Although the difference between 1.13
and 1.618 may appear small, in real trading situations this gap frequently can be expensive.
With respect to the primary tenets of Harmonic Trading and pattern identification, exact
specification of these areas is critical in pinpointing the precise completion of the setup and in
determining the validity of the overall trading opportunity.Although these are general rules, I
noticed a difference in the RSI BAMM extension within the final divergence phase.These rules
outline two areas—depending upon the position of the Trigger Bar relative to the prior high—to
examine for a completion of the setup.If the RSI BAMM Trigger Bar is a few price bars
(typically 2–4) from the prior high, the execution of the trade will occur at the corresponding
1.13 extension.However, an RSI BAMM Trigger Bar that develops at the extreme high for the
move will result in a 1.618 extension at the Confirmation Point.

238 Harmonic Trading: Volume Two
1.13 Extension at RSI BAMM Confirmation Point
Although the general rule regarding the Confirmation Point extension differentiates the 1.13 and
1.618 ratios, the focus of the Trigger Bar should be on the extreme prior peak.Essentially, if the
RSI BAMM Trigger Bar is notthe high price bar, the 1.13 extension is utilized to quantify the
execution area for the trade (see Figure 6.65).
B
X 1.13 34
32
30
28
26
A 24
22
RSI BAMM
RSI BAMM
Completion Point
Trigger Bar 20
Relative Strength (RSI)
Overbought (70)
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
If RSI BAMM Trigger Bar is not the extreme prior peak
Oversold (30) (usually 2-4 bars beyond), the 1.13 extension is utilized at
the Completion Point.
Figure 6.65

Chapter 6 RSI BAMM 239
British Pound/USD (GBP_A0-FX): Weekly
1.13 Extension at RSI BAMM Confirmation Point
Referring to the British Pound example, Figure 6.66 shows an enlarged image of the RSI
BAMM Trigger Bar.Again, the Trigger Bar is the price bar that results in the RSI reading falling
under the extreme overbought 70 limit.In the case of the British Pound, the RSI BAMM Trigger
Bar occurred three bars from the prior high.Therefore, the corresponding retest should possess
a Confirmation Point that completes at or around the 1.13 extension of the prior initial reaction.
RRSSII BBAAMMMM TTrriiggggeerr BBaarr 33 BBaarrss ffrroomm
PPrriioorr PPeeaakk == 11..1133 RRSSII BBAAMMMM
EExxtteennssiioonn aatt CCoonnffiirrmmaattiioonn PPooiinntt
B
X
1.13
A
RRSSII BBAAMMMM
RRSSII BBAAMMMM
CCoonnffiirrmmaattiioonn PPooiinntt
TTrriiggggeerr BBaarr
Figure 6.66
If the RSI BAMM Trigger Bar is the extreme high, the 1.618 extension would be projected to
define the area where the Confirmation Point completes.I will show the 1.618 variation later in
the chapter.

240 Harmonic Trading: Volume Two
Step 7: Pattern Completion at the RSI BAMM
Confirmation Point
After establishing the necessary steps to define the final divergence phase of the RSI BAMM,
the addition of harmonic pattern recognition techniques effectively complements the target
execution area for the completion of the Confirmation Point.This integration immensely
improves the accuracy of the Harmonic Trading techniques to quantify critical technical levels
and to define profitable trading opportunities, as well.
From a general perspective, the integration of harmonic patterns at the Confirmation Point
represents the most significant advancement of the entire Harmonic Trading methodology to
date.Although I have discussed the importance of other technical strategies that complement
the Harmonic Trading approach in prior books and articles, the application of advanced trading
strategies such as the RSI BAMM takes this approach to a new level.
The additional specification of pattern identification within uniquely prescribed technical
situations yields multiple confirmation signals.Such refinement improves the determination of
pattern completions by placing stronger emphasis on the PRZ, as two separate measurement
strategies yield the same result.When a variety of technical measurement tools yield the same
result, the technical information being provided is typically more reliable and accurate.
In terms of the RSI BAMM, the Confirmation Point represents only one primary technical
measurement.Albeit as a result of a rather complex sequence of technical events, the RSI
BAMM Confirmation Bar defines more of a general price area than an exact range.However,
the formation of distinct harmonic patterns within this price area represents powerful trade
signals.In particular, a harmonic pattern at the RSI BAMM Completion Point frequently defines
the precise execution area for a trade.In this manner, the extension at the RSI BAMM
Confirmation Point serves as a minimum entry level before triggering a trade.
The importance of these two measurements will be analyzed in the following examples.
Ideally, all of these technical events should complete simultaneously.Although some situations
may not possess all of the ideal aspects of an RSI BAMM Confirmation Point and harmonic
pattern completion, the integration of these techniques will effectively filter the best trades from
the losers with tremendous accuracy.The following illustrations show the entire RSI BAMM
methodology with various harmonic patterns at the Confirmation Point.
Pattern Completion at the 1.13–1.618 RSI BAMM
Extension Area
Although the position of the RSI BAMM Trigger Bar in relation to the prior high defines the
execution area of the completion of the RSI BAMM, the formation of distinct harmonic patterns
during this final divergence stage is the defining confirmation signal for the execution of the
trade. The pattern’s PRZ combined with the RSI BAMM extension provides significantly more
accurate technical evidence of a probable reversal at hand.Although the execution of the trade

Chapter 6 RSI BAMM 241
is more dependent upon the completion of the pattern, the RSI BAMM extension is a critical
minimum technical level that must be tested.Most importantly, the key to this final phase is to
be patient and wait for distinct patterns to develop in these areas.
Bearish Butterfly at 1.13 RSI BAMM Confirmation
Point
One of the most common patterns associated with a 1.13 RSI BAMM Confirmation Point
extension is a Bearish Butterfly (see Figure 6.67).Typically, the RSI BAMM Trigger Bar will
indicate a 1.13 extension, while the price action forms a distinct Bearish Butterfly, indicating
that the potential reversal will occur at the 1.27 extension.
D
4 34
1
X 1.27 2 4 - 3. 32
2.
000...777888666 B 30
28
26
24
C 22
RSI BAMM
RSI BAMM
Trigger Bar: A 20
Confirmation Point
Relative Strength (RSI)
Overbought (70)
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
If RSI BAMM Trigger Bar is not the extreme price high
Oversold (30) (usually 2-4 price bars from prior extreme high),
then RSI BAMM Confirmation Point will complete at a 1.13 extension
with a Bearish Butterfly.
Figure 6.67
Although this may create some confusion, it is important to remember that the pattern
completion point represents the most critical price level in this area.This underscores the
importance of the PRZ within the RSI BAMM limits (1.13–1.618) as the most critical price area
for the ultimate execution of the trade.

242 Harmonic Trading: Volume Two
British Pound/USD (GBP_A0-FX): Weekly
Bearish Butterfly at 1.13 RSI BAMM Confirmation
Point
Referring back to our weekly example of the British Pound, the Bearish Butterfly clearly
complemented the RSI BAMM Confirmation Point.Although the 1.13 extension was slightly
below the pattern’s PRZ, the combination of the Bearish Butterfly and the Bearish RSI BAMM
defined critical long-term resistance in the 1.95–1.96 area on the weekly chart.
The chart in Figure 6.68 shows the indicator and price action that possesses a distinct
bearish harmonic pattern at the RSI BAMM Confirmation Point.
RRSSII BBAAMMMM CCoonnffiirrmmaattiioonn
RRSSII BBAAMMMM TTrriiggggeerr
PPooiinntt
BBaarr
Figure 6.68

Chapter 6 RSI BAMM 243
British Pound/USD (GBP_A0-FX): Weekly
Bearish Butterfly Potential Reversal Zone (PRZ) at
1.13 RSI BAMM Confirmation Point
The enlarged chart in Figure 6.69 of the British Pound shows the PRZ of the weekly Bearish
Butterfly at the 1.13 RSI BAMM Confirmation Point.
RRSSII BBAAMMMM
CCoonnffiirrmmaattiioonn PPooiinntt
Figure 6.69
Clearly, the PRZ of the pattern with the RSI BAMM Confirmation Bar identified critical long-
term resistance, as the British Pound reversed sharply in the weeks following the completion of
the setup.

244 Harmonic Trading: Volume Two
Alternate Bearish Bat at 1.13 RSI BAMM Confirmation
Point
Although a Bearish Butterfly possesses powerful harmonic implications at the 1.13 RSI BAMM
Confirmation Point extension, there are many instances where an Alternate Bat Pattern may be
the only structure forming at the completion of the setup (see Figure 6.70).
D
34
X 1.13 618
3. 32
8-
61 30
0.
2.
3
8 28
2
B
26
24
0.618 C 22
A
20
Relative Strength (RSI) RSI BAMM RSI BAMM
Trigger Bar
Trigger Bar
Overbought (70)
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
If RSI BAMM Trigger Bar is not the extreme price high
(usually 2-4 price bars from prior extreme high), then RSI
Oversold (30) BAMM Confirmation Point will complete at a 1.13
extension with an Alternate Bearish Bat.
Figure 6.70
In the case of the Alternate Bat, the completion of the setup will typically reverse very close
to the 1.13 extension.It is important to focus on this extension level and the RSI Confirmation
Point for an indication that the reversal has completed.As long as the other elements of the
RSI BAMM and the pattern alignment complete in the same area, the trade execution at the
1.13 extension is valid.
On a side note, you may be wondering about other retracement patterns like the Gartley or
the Bat that may form in conjunction with a 1.13 extension.Although these patterns will
typically complete before the 1.13 extension, the position of their RSI BAMM Trigger Bar will
typically be 5 or more price bars from the prior high.I will show an example a bit later in this
chapter.As for the Alternate Bat pattern, the Trigger Bar will typically be 3–4 price bars from the
prior high.

Chapter 6 RSI BAMM 245
Standard and Poor’s 500 ETF (SPY): 5-Minute
Alternate Bearish Bat at RSI BAMM Confirmation
Point
The chart of the SPY in Figure 6.71 shows a distinct RSI BAMM setup with a Bearish Alternate
Bat converging at the Completion Point.The price action reversed sharply after testing the PRZ
and the overbought 70 limit.The precise reversal and decisive continuation following the
completion of the setup were clear signs of a valid reversal at hand.
X D
1.13
0. 8
3
8 2 1
6
.
3
B
C
A
RRSSII BBAAMMMM TTrriiggggeerr
BBaarr
RRSSII BBAAMMMM CCoonnffiirrmmaattiioonn
PPooiinntt
Figure 6.71
Although the SPY reversed just shy of the 1.13 extension, the price action tested most of
the PRZ at the same time it completed the impulsive retest at the RSI Completion Point.Again,
the coordination of these technical events is the defining element of all valid reversals.When
the completion of the pattern occurs simultaneously with the RSI retest, the reversal is likely to
yield a significant move.

246 Harmonic Trading: Volume Two
Standard and Poor’s 500 ETF (SPY): 5-Minute
Alternate Bearish Bat Potential Reversal Zone (PRZ)
at RSI BAMM Confirmation Point
The enlarged chart in Figure 6.72 of the Alternate Bearish Bat PRZ at the RSI BAMM
Confirmation Point reveals the ideal elements for a valid reversal.The price action stalled
immediately in the PRZ and exemplified the model technical coordination between the
completion of the pattern and the RSI BAMM.
D
1.13
8
1
6
3.
RRSSII BBAAMMMM CCoonnffiirrmmaattiioonn
PPooiinntt
Figure 6.72
The SPY “kissed”the 70 level on the RSI retest as the pattern completed.In addition, the
overwhelming downside continuation following the completion of the setup helped to quickly
confirm its validity.

Chapter 6 RSI BAMM 247
Pattern Completion Before 1.13–1.618 RSI BAMM
Extension at Confirmation Point: Bearish Bat
The Bearish Bat structure that completes at an RSI Confirmation Point offers a unique trade
opportunity.The structure of the pattern is extremely important to distinguish the optimal
execution for the trade.The price action will usually test the PRZ and the overbought extreme
zone before an execution signal is generated.The impulsive retest will occur at the 0.886
retracement—not the minimum 1.13 RSI BAMM extension (see Figure 6.73).
34
A 0.886
D
32
0.50 2.0 30
B 28
26
24
22
C
A
20
RRSSII BBAAMMMM
Relative Strength (RSI) TTrriiggggeerr BBaarr RRSSII BBAAMMMM
CCoonnffiirrmmaattiioonn PPooiinntt
Overbought (70)
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Oversold (30)
Bearish Bat at RSI BAMM Confirmation Point
Figure 6.73
Although the Trigger Bar high point resistance (dotted line) complements this area, the
coordination of these two technical events is critical in determining the minor reactive moves
from the major reversals.

248 Harmonic Trading: Volume Two
Standard and Poor’s 500 March 2010 Mini-Contract
(ES_H0): 15-Minute
Bearish Bat at RSI BAMM Extension
Figure 6.74 shows a Bearish Bat that completed in conjunction with the RSI BAMM
Confirmation Point (see Figure 6.74).The interesting aspect of this situation was the slightly
delayed test of the PRZ, as the price action tested the RSI BAMM Completion Point well before
the ultimate reversal.
RRSSII BBAAMMMM RRSSII BBAAMMMM
TTrriiggggeerr BBaarr CCoonnffiirrmmaattiioonn PPooiinntt
Figure 6.74

Chapter 6 RSI BAMM 249
Standard and Poor’s 500 March 2010 Mini-Contract
(ES_H0): 15-Minute
Bearish Bat Potential Reversal Zone (PRZ) at RSI
BAMM Confirmation Point
Figure 6.75 shows an enlarged chart of the price action the PRZ.Although the RSI rolled over
much earlier, this example underscores the need to coordinate the pattern completion with the
indicator divergence.Also, this situation demonstrates that the RSI BAMM completion is a
minimum technical signal and relies on the completion of the pattern to dictate when and where
to execute the trade.
RRSSII BBAAMMMM
CCoonnffiirrmmaattiioonn PPooiinntt
Figure 6.75

250 Harmonic Trading: Volume Two
Pattern Completion Before 1.13–1.618 RSI BAMM
Extension at Confirmation Point: Bearish Gartley
In the case of the Bearish Gartley, the structure of the pattern is extremely important.Although
the PRZ is typically well below the minimum 1.13 RSI BAMM extension, this situation still relies
on coordinating the completion of the pattern with the final impulsive indicator retest (see
Figure 6.76).
34
X
D 32
0.786
0.618
B
1.2 7 30
28
26
24
0.786
22
A
20
Relative Strength (RSI) RSI BAMM RSI BAMM
Trigger Bar
Confirmation Bar
Overbought (70)
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Oversold (30)
Bearish Gartley Completes at RSI Confirmation Point
Figure 6.76
Although the Trigger Bar high point resistance (dotted line) complements this area, the
coordination of these two technical events is most critical in validating the best trade
opportunities.

Chapter 6 RSI BAMM 251
Eurodollar (EUR_A0-FX): 5-Minute
Bearish Gartley at RSI BAMM Extension
In this example, the price action possessed a distinct bearish Gartley pattern that completed
in conjunction with the RSI BAMM Confirmation Point (see Figure 6.77).
RRSSII BBAAMMMM
RRSSII BBAAMMMM
TTrriiggggeerr BBaarr
CCoonnffiirrmmaattiioonn PPooiinntt
Figure 6.77
Although the Euro rallied sharply as it tested the PRZ, the price action stalled immediately
after hitting the overbought 70 level at the RSI BAMM Confirmation Point.

252 Harmonic Trading: Volume Two
Eurodollar (EUR_A0-FX): 5-Minute
Bearish Gartley Potential Reversal Zone (PRZ)
at RSI BAMM Confirmation Point
The price action the PRZ is illustrated particularly well on the enlarged chart in Figure 6.78.The
arrow points to where the RSI BAMM Confirmation Point completed.
RRRSSSIII BBBAAAMMMMMM
CCCooonnnfffiiirrrmmmaaatttiiiooonnn PPPoooiiinnnttt
Figure 6.78
Both technical events of the pattern’s completion and the successful impulsive RSI retest
occurred nearly on the same day.This situation exemplifies the type of coordination between
the two approaches that yields the best trading opportunities.

Chapter 6 RSI BAMM 253
Pattern Completion Before 1.13–1.618 RSI BAMM
Extension at Confirmation Area: Bearish 5-0 Pattern
The Bearish 5-0 pattern is probably the most difficult to incorporate with the RSI BAMM.This is
due simply to the fact that the completion of the pattern occurs nowhere near the minimum
1.13 RSI BAMM extension (see Figure 6.79).
B
1.13
RSI
BAMFi Mna Cl D oniv fe irr mge an tc ioe
n
S Pta og ine t–
: 34
X
Impulsive RSI retests extreme oversold
32
limit while Bearish 5-0 price pattern
0.50 completes. 30
D 28
26
A
24
1.618 22
C 20
RSI BAMM
Relative Strength (RSI) Trigger Bar RSI BAMM
Confirmation Bar
Overbought (70)
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Oversold (30)
Bearish 5-0 Completes at RSI BAMM Confirmation Point
Figure 6.79
As is the case with all harmonic patterns in the RSI BAMM setup, coordination is the key.
The best 5-0 patterns require a distinct price structure that must complete in tandem with the
RSI BAMM Confirmation Point.It is important to focus on the completion of the impulsive RSI
retest, as this will typically be the most significant signal within the PRZ of the pattern.

254 Harmonic Trading: Volume Two
Google (GOOG): 15-Minute
Pattern Completion Before 1.13–1.618 RSI BAMM
Extension at Confirmation Area: Bearish 5-0 Pattern
The intra-day chart of Google in Figure 6.80 shows a distinct Bearish 5-0 pattern that
completed simultaneously with the RSI BAMM Confirmation Point.The successful reversal
following the impulsive retest at the Confirmation Point was a definitive signal to confirm the
execution of the short position in the PRZ of the 5-0 pattern.
B
1.6 1 8
0.50
X
D
A
1.
6
1
8
C
RRSSII BBAAMMMM RRSSII BBAAMMMM
TTrriiggggeerr BBaarr CCoonnffiirrmmaattiioonn PPooiinntt
Figure 6.80
Although the typical 1.13 or 1.618 extension does not factor into these situations, the
coordination of the impulsive RSI retest and the completion of the pattern continually provides
accurate signals and effectively filters the best setups.Therefore, the 5-0 relies on the
coordination of the indicator readings and the price action more than any other pattern applied
to the RSI BAMM approach.

Chapter 6 RSI BAMM 255
1.618 Extension at RSI BAMM Confirmation Point
The general rule for the Confirmation Point extension must focus on the location of the Trigger
Bar, as it relates to the extreme prior peak.If the RSI BAMM Trigger Bar is the high price bar,
the 1.618 extension is utilized to quantify the execution area for the trade (see Figure 6.81).
1.6 1 8 34
32
30
28
26
24
RSI BAMM
22
RSI BAMM Confirmation Point
Trigger Bar: 20
Relative Strength (RSI)
Overbought (70)
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
If RSI BAMM Trigger Bar is the extreme price high, RSI BAMM
Confirmation Point will complete at a 1.618 extension.
Oversold (30)
Figure 6.81
The two patterns that are utilized in these situations are the Bearish Crab and the Deep
Bearish Crab.The following case studies are fantastic examples of pattern completions within
the final phase of the RSI BAMM that converge with a 1.618 Confirmation Point.Although the
1.618 extension is the most critical harmonic number in this setup, the PRZ of the pattern
defines the exact price range to execute the trade but still relies on the coordination of the RSI
BAMM Confirmation Point to optimize trading decisions.

256 Harmonic Trading: Volume Two
Bearish Crab at 1.618 RSI BAMM Confirmation Point
In the Bearish RSI BAMM, the general rule for the Confirmation Point extension must focus on
the location of the Trigger Bar, as it relates to the extreme prior low.If the Bearish RSI BAMM
Trigger Bar is the extreme high, the 1.618 extension is utilized to quantify the Confirmation
Point and the execution area for the trade(see Figure 6.82).
D
34
1.6 1 8 111888
666 32
333...
X
222444---
30
222...
28
0.618 B
26
24
22
C
A
20
RSI BAMM
Trigger Bar:
Relative Strength (RSI) RSI BAMM
Confirmation Point
Overbought (70)
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Oversold (30)
Bearish Crab at 1.618 RSI BAMM Confirmation Point
Figure 6.82
Although other factors will be considered, the importance of the extreme high to signal a
1.618 RSI BAMM extension helps to define the ultimate execution point for the trade.Two
patterns—the Bearish Crab and the Deep Bearish Crab—utilize the 1.618 extension.
Regardless of which Crab defines the PRZ, the crucial technical event occurs when the price
action tests this area at the same time it completes the RSI BAMM Confirmation Bar.

Chapter 6 RSI BAMM 257
Family Dollar (FDO): Daily
Bearish Crab with Bearish RSI BAMM
The daily chart of Family Dollar in Figure 6.83 shows a Bearish Crab that completed with a
distinct Bearish RSI BAMM setup.Since the extreme prior high at the X point represented the
Trigger Bar, the ultimate completion occurred at the 1.618 extension.
D
1.6 1 8
X
8
1
6
3.
0.
5
0
B
A C
RRSSII BBAAMMMM RRSSII BBAAMMMM
CCoonnffiirrmmaattiioonn PPooiinntt CCoonnffiirrmmaattiioonn PPooiinntt
Figure 6.83
The stock reversed immediately after testing the 1.618 RSI BAMM Completion Point.The
decisive downside continuation accelerated after the RSI impulsive retest reversed from the 70
level.Again, the coordination of the reversal in both the pattern and the RSI BAMM signaled a
valid setup at hand.

258 Harmonic Trading: Volume Two
Deep Bearish Crab at 1.618 RSI BAMM Confirmation
Point
Similar to the 1.13 RSI BAMM extension, the 1.618 extension is dictated by the position of the
Trigger Bar.In this case, a Trigger Bar that is the extreme prior high will result in a
corresponding pattern that utilizes a 1.618 projection.Within the Harmonic Trading arsenal of
patterns, this will usually manifest as a Crab or Deep Crab pattern.
The Deep Bearish Crab presents a unique situation at the RSI BAMM Completion Point
(see Figure 6.84).The 1.618 extension is the defining level for both the completion of the
pattern and the RSI BAMM.In these situations, the 1.618 extension becomes even more
significant, and the price action should not exceed this resistance level.Furthermore, most valid
reversals will occur quickly after this area has been tested.
D
34
1.6 1 8 6 1 8
4 -
3.
32
2
2.
X B 30
0.886 28
26
24
RSI BAMM C Final Divergence Phase - 22
Trigger Bar: A Confirmation Point: 20
Impulsive RSI retests extreme
limit while price rallies to a
Relative Strength (RSI)
nominal new high.
Overbought (70)
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Oversold (30)
If RSI BAMM Trigger Bar is the extreme price high, then RSI BAMM
Confirmation Point will complete at a 1.618 extension.
Figure 6.84

Chapter 6 RSI BAMM 259
Boeing (BA): Daily
Deep Bearish Crab with Bearish RSI BAMM
The Boeing chart in Figure 6.85 shows the entire RSI BAMM and the distinct Bearish Crab that
formed during the divergence phase of the RSI BAMM.Although there were other numbers in
the PRZ to complement this harmonic resistance, the 1.618 extension was the defining
technical level in the setup.The convergence of the completion of the pattern with the impulsive
RSI retest marked a critical reversal for the stock on the daily chart.
RRSSII BBAAMMMM
RRSSII BBAAMMMM
TTrriiggggeerr BBaarr
CCoonnffiirrmmaattiioonn PPooiinntt
Figure 6.85
Although the RSI BAMM Confirmation Point completed before the entire test of the PRZ,
both methods indicated the distinct area where this trend would change.In addition, this
example of Boeing truly shows how distinct harmonic patterns that form in the final phase of
the RSI BAMM can pinpoint precise reversal zones.

260 Harmonic Trading: Volume Two
Boeing (BA): Daily
Deep Bearish Crab Potential Reversal Zone (PRZ) at
1.618 RSI BAMM Confirmation Point
The enlarged chart in Figure 6.86 of the price action in the PRZ at the RSI BAMM Confirmation
Point clearly shows how the uptrend stalled as it tested this area and rolled over shortly after
completing the pattern.
RRSSII BBAAMMMM
CCoonnffiirrmmaattiioonn PPooiinntt
Figure 6.86
On a side note, the impulsive RSI retest reading literally kissed the 70 limit and reversed.
These situations may be difficult to assess because the RSI BAMM Confirmation Point typically
involves a sharp and brief indicator test.Although these situations may be tricky, the PRZ of the
pattern serves to indicate the optimal price level for the trade execution.Remember, both
conditions of a pattern completion and a successful test of the Confirmation Point are required
to validate the entire RSI BAMM setup.

Chapter 6 RSI BAMM 261
RSI BAMM Confirmation Point—Reversal Acceleration
Trigger
An additional technical trigger serves as a secondary confirmation.Although this final trigger
does not develop in every situation, when present after the final test of the Confirmation Point,
it typically represents an area of acceleration of the reversal.
Bearish Confirmation Point—Reversal Acceleration
Trigger
The important focus of this Acceleration Trigger is the impulsive test of the RSI in conjunction
with the price action.The structure of the RSI reading is critical after it sinks below the 70 level,
as it can offer an important technical trigger that marks the area where the reversal should
begin to accelerate (see Figure 6.87).
B
34
A
1.13;
1.618
32
30
28
26
24
22
RSI BAMM
RSI BAMM
A
Trigger Bar: Confirmation Point 20
Relative Strength (RSI)
Overbought (70)
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
RSI BAMM
Acceleration Point
Oversold (30)
Figure 6.87

262 Harmonic Trading: Volume Two
Typically, the RSI reading forms a brief “corrective pause”before accelerating to the
downside.This “corrective pause”usually occurs within a few price bars of the breakdown.The
trigger is determined by the price bar that results in the (accelerated) breakdown of the
indicator reading following the completion of the RSI BAMM Confirmation Point.
It is important to expect that the RSI trigger signal will develop beforethe price begins to
move.Although the RSI trigger is a bit early, the RSI BAMM Acceleration Trigger marks the
most critical area within the entire strategy.This price level marks where an acceleration of the
reversal price action must occur at this point or shortly thereafter.After the reaction from the
overbought area, the indicator reading of the final RSI BAMM Confirmation Point should
accelerate decidedly following the impulsive test of this last phase.In particular, the structure of
the RSI reading is critical after it sinks below the 70 level, as it must demonstrate a decisive
continuation of the reversal trend.Specifically, an M-type formation following the impulsive RSI
test at the Confirmation Point should serve as an acceleration level that marks the beginning of
the new trend.
The magnified illustration of the Bearish RSI BAMM Confirmation Point in Figure 6.88
clearly shows the ideal indicator structure that serves as a definitive confirmation trigger.It is
important to note that the ideal structure is more visibly seen in the RSI than the price.
Sometimes, the initial pullback following a reversal from the RSI BAMM Confirmation Point may
only be a one or two bearish price bar pause, but the internal action is weakening.Although
waiting for this trigger may delay an execution, the extra confirmation does provide a reliable
signal of a valid reversal at hand.Furthermore, this breakdown of the Acceleration Trigger
prevents executions at invalid RSI BAMM Confirmation Points, where the impulsive test at the
70 level flounders and does not provide decisive reversal continuation.

Chapter 6 RSI BAMM 263
34
1.13; 1.618 32
30
28
26
24
RSI BAMM Confirmation Point 22
20
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
RSI BAMM Acceleration Point
Figure 6.88
In these situations, it is important to respond appropriately and exit the trade at a small loss
or break even due to the fact that the price action languishes after completing the RSI BAMM
Confirmation Point.
The price action should move quickly and decidedly after the Acceleration Trigger is
confirmed.The price bar that completes the breakdown of the M-type structure in the RSI
reading will typically mark the acceleration point of the new reversal trend.When this trigger
materializes, it creates a “do-or-die”situation while possessing powerful price action signals.In
fact, the Acceleration Trigger represents the most sophisticated technical setup within the entire
Harmonic Trading approach.

264 Harmonic Trading: Volume Two
Google (GOOG): 5-Minute
Bearish 5-0 Pattern Potential Reversal Zone (PRZ) at
RSI BAMM Confirmation Point with Acceleration
Trigger
Referring back to the example of the Bearish 5-0 pattern in Google in Figure 6.80, the stock
reversed precisely after hitting the entire PRZ at the same time the RSI completed a successful
impulsive retest of the overbought extreme limit above the 70 level (see Figure 6.89).
RRSSII BBAAMMMM
TTrriiggggeerr BBaarr RRSSII BBAAMMMM
CCoonnffiirrmmaattiioonn PPooiinntt
Figure 6.89
The Acceleration Bar completed an M-type structure after the indicator reading broke down
under the 70 level.This extra signal effectively indicated the area where the reversal would
accelerate.It is important to note that the combination of the measuring techniques of harmonic
price patterns and the ability of the RSI BAMM to define divergent areas of price action present
an advanced methodology of technical strategies that effectively optimizes trading decisions in
an unprecedented fashion.In particular, the final phase of the RSI BAMM represents a

Chapter 6 RSI BAMM 265
powerful technical measuring technique in its own right.When harmonic patterns converge at
the Confirmation Point of the RSI BAMM, the multitude of technical readings serves to generate
a consensus reading of whether to execute the trade.
Bearish RSI BAMM Failure—Stop Loss
Considerations
After defining the entire range of the RSI BAMM and the harmonic pattern completion points,
the only consideration beyond the execution is the stop loss limit.The stop loss is a
combination of the RSI BAMM extension—typically beyond the 1.618—and the price limit of the
pattern that corresponds with the setup.Again, this will also include the price levels that are
defined by the larger relevant harmonic levels.From a purely RSI BAMM perspective, the key
invalidation point truly occurs beyond the 1.618 extension of the final divergent move.The
validation of the technical phenomenon becomes questionable beyond the 2.0 extension of the
final move for either situation.
In the case of the 1.13 RSI BAMM extension, it should not experience price action beyond
the 1.618 level.For the 1.618 RSI BAMM extension, the price action should not exceed the 2.0
projection.Again, these are more guidelines than strict rules, as the stop loss for each situation
is dependent upon the pattern completion at the RSI BAMM Confirmation Point.
As is the case for harmonic pattern failures, price action that violates these price levels,
especially on the first test, should raise a red flag that the primary trend is quite strong.Most
important, the area defined by the pattern’s PRZ and the RSI BAMM Confirmation Point defines
a “do or die”price level that does not leave much room for discretion.
From a purely RSI BAMM perspective, the stop loss point represents the area where the
entire scenario fails.Although these general rules attempt to define reliable technical levels to
discern potential RSI BAMM violations, each situation still requires an ability to assess price
action relative to the conditions of the setup to optimize trading decisions.Sometimes, these
can be tricky situations.However, these rules provide defined limits where the reversal must
occur.
As a side note, I dedicate an entire chapter to pattern failures in Harmonic Trading:Volume
One.I will not cover the specifics of these strategies in this material.However, these violations
are important technical events within the Harmonic Trading approach.It is important to
recognize the violation of these precise harmonic zones and how they typically exhibit decisive
price action in the continuation of the predominant trend.

266 Harmonic Trading: Volume Two
Intercontinental Exchange (ICE): 5-Minute
Bearish Alternate Bat and RSI BAMM Failure
The Intercontinental Exchange (ICE) example in Figure 6.90 shows a distinct Bearish RSI
BAMM setup on the 5-minute chart.Despite the ideal conditions, the stock rallied sharply above
the RSI BAMM Confirmation Point.In fact, the impulsive RSI retest exceeded the prior reading
at the Confirmation Point as it continued above the PRZ.
D
1.13
X
0.382 3.6 1 8
B
PRZ is violated while
RSI BAMM
C Confirmation Point
exceeded.
A
RRSSII BBAAMMMM RRSSII BBAAMMMM
TTrriiggggeerr BBaarr CCoonnffiirrmmaattiioonn PPooiinntt
Figure 6.90
This example shows the typical price action involved with a violation of the RSI BAMM
setup.Specifically, ICE formed the RSI BAMM with a 1.13 extension that was projected to
complete at $72 a share.However, the price action exceeded this area and continued through
the 1.618 stop loss projection.

Chapter 6 RSI BAMM 267
Intercontinental Exchange (ICE): 5-Minute
Bearish Alternate Bat and Bearish RSI BAMM Failure
The chart in Figure 6.91 shows the Bearish Alternate Bat that completed at the RSI BAMM
Confirmation Point.The combination of the bearish pattern and the RSI BAMM setup clearly
defined the $72 level as critical short-term resistance.Despite the ideal conditions, the price
action rallied sharply through the PRZ and the RSI BAMM Confirmation Point after a brief
consolidation.
D
X
1.13
1.13 Extension RSI
BAMM and
Alternate Bearish
B Bat PRZ Violated
0.
3 Above RSI
8
2
Confirmation Point
Level Is Exceeded
C
RRSSII BBAAMMMM RRSSII BBAAMMMM
TTrriiggggeerr BBaarr A CCoonnffiirrmmaattiioonn PPooiinntt
Figure 6.91
The inclusion of the pattern with the RSI BAMM Confirmation Point helped to define a more
precise area and to determine the violation of the setup.Although the violation of the 1.618 RSI
BAMM extension was a substantial signal, the strong price action through the pattern’s PRZ
was the definitive technical evidence that indicated a failure at hand.

268 Harmonic Trading: Volume Two
Intercontinental Exchange (ICE): 60-Minute
Bearish Alternate Bat Potential Reversal Zone (PRZ)
and Bearish RSI BAMM Failure
The enlarged chart in Figure 6.92 clearly shows the decisive upside continuation through the
PRZ.Although the general rule of thumb in the case of the 1.13 RSI BAMM incorporates a
1.618 extension as the stop loss limit, the pattern’s PRZ in this example of ICE signaled a
violation much earlier.
1.13
3.6 1 8
PPRRZZ aanndd RRSSII BBAAMMMM
CCoonnffiirrmmaattiioonn PPooiinntt VViioollaatteedd
RRSSII BBAAMMMM
CCoonnffiirrmmaattiioonn PPooiinntt
Figure 6.92
It is important to note that the same rules apply with the 1.618 RSI BAMM extension.The
essence of determining the validity of an opportunity is to analyze the price action as it
completes the pattern andretests the overbought RSI 70 level.If the action in both the price
and the RSI decisively violates its respective technical levels, a significant continuation of the
primary trend typically follows.Although it will require some time to effectively decipher these
situations, the ability of these techniques to distinguish such opportunities is immensely
accurate.

Chapter 6 RSI BAMM 269
Final RSI BAMM Review
The RSI BAMM represents a significant evolution in the Harmonic Trading approach.The
integrative strategies embodied within the RSI BAMM clearly demonstrate effectiveness of
multiple confirmation techniques to define trade opportunities.Although others—including
Welles Wilder himself—have presented research that discusses the basic concepts of
divergence as it relates to Relative Strength, I believe that this technique that incorporates
harmonic measurement strategies is the most precise means of quantifying this technical
phenomenon.In fact, the inclusion of harmonic patterns to act as structural signals to further
refine these divergent situations presents an immensely accurate system that quantifies precise
technical levels of potential harmonic support and resistance in an unprecedented fashion.
Since discovering the RSI BAMM, the price zones of support and resistance that
incorporate both the RSI and PRZ measurements have immensely improved the basic pattern
identification techniques.These unprecedented strategies advance the basic tenets of the
Harmonic Trading approach to define unique situations where harmonic pattern completions
are especially significant.
The RSI BAMM includes the following steps:
• Step 1:Initial Test of the Extreme RSI Limit
• Step 2:Complete M- or W-Type Complex RSI Structure
• Step 3:Define the RSI Trigger Bar
• Step 4:Assess Reaction of RSI and Price
• Step 5:The Final Phase—Divergence of RSI Versus Price
• Step 6:RSI BAMM Confirmation Point:1.13 Versus 1.618
• Step 7:Pattern Completion at the RSI BAMM Confirmation Point
Although each step must be assessed carefully, this approach clearly defines the required
elements to validate the RSI BAMM conditions.Although the pattern completion is the last step
in the process, the integration of the PRZ and the RSI BAMM Completion Point is dependent
upon each of the prior steps to be satisfied to trigger this technical phenomenon.These
requirements must be met before any pattern can be considered to define a trade opportunity.
It is important to review some of the most critical elements of the RSI BAMM.
RSI BAMM Tips
• Look for the Extreme RSI Complex indicator reading to initiate the setup.
• Look for the initial reaction of the complex RSI reading to retest the 50 limit reading at a
minimum before completing the Confirmation Point.
• Wait for the divergence of RSI and price, as long as the impulsive RSI retest of the
extreme limit does not exceed the reading of the prior complex structure.

270 Harmonic Trading: Volume Two
• The execution of the trade is triggered at the completion of the relative harmonic pattern
that completes at the appropriate RSI BAMM extension level.
• The Acceleration Trigger provides an extremely effective final confirmation signal when it
develops following the RSI BAMM Confirmation Point.
The concept of divergence is quantified effectively by the RSI BAMM approach.As a trader,
I am constantly analyzing charts, looking for the best opportunities that signal a significant
change in the primary trend.The combination of the RSI BAMM approach with the completion
of harmonic patterns creates a unique divergent situation that defines immensely accurate
trading opportunities.Although these strategies may take some time to integrate into your
current trading plan, the advanced techniques represent a substantial advancement of the
entire Harmonic Trading approach and serve to filter the best pattern completions.In the years
to come, I firmly believe that the RSI BAMM and the other advanced strategies presented in
this book will go a long way in helping you to turn patterns into profits—because that’s what this
game is all about!

Conclusion
Harmonic Trading:Volume Tworepresents my most comprehensive research to date.The new
patterns and trading strategies, especially the RSI BAMM, take the Harmonic Trading approach
to a new level.These strategies refine the existing approach presented in my first two books.
Volume Two incorporates new measurement techniques, providing more accurate technical
information and optimizing trade decisions.Although these concepts include new elements to
define harmonic price behavior, this analysis still adheres to the primary tenets of the Harmonic
Trading approach of pattern recognition as quantified by Fibonacci ratios.Although this material
encompasses new technical measures, the same analytical process is applied to identify
harmonic price behavior.
Is This Really Harmonic Trading?
Despite the effectiveness of the RSI BAMM, you might be asking:“Is this really Harmonic
Trading?”To answer this, we need to ask the proverbial question:“What is Harmonic Trading?”
The answer is
“Harmonic Trading isa methodology that utilizes the recognition of
specific structures that possess distinct and consecutive Fibonacci
ratio alignments that quantify and validate harmonic patterns.These
patterns calculate the Fibonacci aspects of these price structures to
identify highly probable reversal points in the financial markets.…
The identification of historically repetitive price patterns is the primary
means that these techniques utilize to interpret the market’s signals.
It is in this effective price pattern identification ability that Harmonic
Trading possesses its greatest advantages.The precision and accuracy
of the specific pattern alignments define a consistent and effective
approach that can be easily applied.Furthermore,each distinct pattern
acts as a model for the basis of all trading decisions.Once a potential
pattern is identified,the trading opportunity can be managed according
to a defined set of rules that are particular for each situation.Although
each pattern possesses different elements,Harmonic Trading does
identify specific repetitive situations within the chaos of the financial
markets.”
(Scott M.Carney, Harmonic Trading:Volume One[FT Press 2010], 7-8).
271

272 Harmonic Trading: Volume Two
In essence, the techniques in Volume Twoutilize pattern recognition and Fibonacci ratios to
define unique technical support and resistance levels.Although the analysis in this material
addressed indicator structures and employed new patterns to define harmonic price behavior,
the measurement tools are consistent with the Harmonic Trading methodology.
What’s More Important: RSI BAMM or Harmonic
Patterns?
Without a doubt, the strategies presented in this material—in particular, BAMM Theory and the
RSI BAMM—are practically a trading system unto themselves.This could be a costly fact for
me to mention.Why trade harmonic patterns when the RSI BAMM works so well on its own?
There’s no doubt that both harmonic price pattern recognition strategies and the RSI BAMM
approach can be effective in their own right.But their true effectiveness can be seen when they
work in concert with each other.When techniques of multiple approaches come together and
yield the same result, the probability for a successful trading opportunity is extremely high.
Harmonic patterns represent the starting point for the entire methodology.The effective
measurement techniques presented in my first two books offered a comprehensive system that
effectively deciphered price action and determined trade opportunities.However, the material
withinVolume Two identifies an unprecedented technical situation where both the RSI and the
pattern completion converge to identify an extremely precise trading opportunity.Again, this is
where the confirmation of multiple technical methods gives a much greater probability of a valid
reversal and possibly a more significant move.Despite this “dual approach,”I must emphasize
that patterns are still more critical within the Harmonic Trading approach than the RSI BAMM.
In fact, I would not recommend executing an RSI BAMM setup without a pattern.
As my research has continued through the years, the advantage of defining specific
“technical entities”such as the RSI BAMM within the context of harmonic price behavior has
yielded consistently reliable information regarding the potential state of future price action.
When harmonic patterns develop in specific technical situations, their completion typically
represents a critical point within the predominant trend.This specification improves the overall
comprehension of the price action and creates a defined system to identify valid trade
opportunities.Therefore, it is always important to be as precise as possible.
In closing, I want to thank you for taking the time to study this material.I truly believe that
these unprecedented strategies are extremely effective in discovering the most profitable
trading opportunities.In my opinion, the material in this book represents the most significant
advancement of the entire Harmonic Trading approach since its inception, as well.Finally, I
hope that these new ideas are embraced within the field of Technical Analysis as widely as the
initial concepts of this approach have been accepted.

Bibliography
Carney, Scott M.Harmonic Trading:Volume One.Upper Saddle River, NJ:FT Press, 2010.
——.The Harmonic Trader.Nevada:HarmonicTrader.com, L.L.C, 1999.
Cohen, Guy.Options Made Easy.London:Prentice-Hall, 2005.
Edwards, Robert and John Magee.Technical Analysis of Stock Trends, 8th ed.Boca Raton, FL:
CRC Press, LLC, 2001.
Frost, Alfred John and Robert Prechter.Elliott Wave Principle.Gainesville, GA:New Classics
Library, 1978.
Hurst, J.M.J.M.Hurst Cycles Course.Greenville, SC:Traders Press, 1973.
——.The Profit Magic of Stock Transaction Timing.Greenville, SC:Traders Press, 1970.
Kane, Jim.Trade Management.Tucson, AZ:KaneTrading.com, 2005.
——.Median Line and Fibonacci Synergy.Tucson, AZ:KaneTrading.com, 2006.
Warren, Ted.How to Make the Stock Market Make Money for You.Grants Pass, OR:The Ted
Warren Company, 1966.
Wilder, J.Welles.New Concepts in Technical Trading Systems. Greensboro, NC:Trend
Research, 1978.
Wyckoff, Richard.Stock Market Technique.Fraser Publishing, 1934.
273

This page intentionally left blank

Index
Numerics NASDAQ 100 March 2010 mini-contract
60-minute chart example, 82
0.886 retracement
S&P 500 June 2009 mini-contract
extreme bearish harmonic impulse waves at,
15-minute chart example, 83
69-70
S&P 500 Trust daily chart example, 81
extreme bullish harmonic impulse waves at, 67-68
Bullish 5-0 pattern PRZ, 84
1.13 extension (failed wave), 58
Bullish 5-0 pattern with Bullish AB=CD, 85-86
bearish 1.13 extension, 61-62
failed Bearish 5-0 pattern, 100-101
bullish 1.13 extension, 59-60
failed Bullish 5-0 pattern, 97-98
1.13 RSI BAMM Confirmation Point
failed Bullish 5-0 pattern PRZ, 99
Alternate Bearish Bat pattern, 244-246
requirements, 78
Alternate Bullish Bat pattern, 192-194
9/11 terrorist attacks, effect on Dow Jones Industrial
Bearish 5-0 pattern, 253-254
Average, 36-37
Bearish Bat pattern, 247-249
2025 (year), long-term harmonic projections for, 50
Bearish Butterfly pattern, 241-243
Dow Jones Industrial Average weekly chart
Bearish Gartley pattern, 250-252
example, 53
Bullish 5-0 pattern, 201-203
NASDAQ Composite weekly chart example, 52
Bullish Bat pattern, 195-197
S&P 500 weekly chart example, 50-51
Bullish Butterfly pattern, 188-191
Bullish Gartley pattern, 198-200 A
1.618 RSI BAMM Confirmation Point, 204, 255
Bearish Crab pattern, 256-257 AB=CD BAMM, 152
Bullish Crab pattern, 205-207 Bearish AB=CD BAMM, 156-158
Deep Bearish Crab pattern, 258-260 Bullish AB=CD BAMM, 153-155
Deep Bullish Crab pattern, 208-210 AB=CD patterns
5-0 pattern, 73-74 Bearish AB=CD pattern, 152
Bearish 5-0 pattern, 88, 253-254 Bearish reciprocal AB=CD patterns within trends,
AMEX Oil Index 5-minute chart example, 89 121-122
Dow Jones Industrial Average 1-minute Bullish AB=CD pattern, 37, 39-40
chart example, 93 Bullish reciprocal AB=CD patterns within trends,
S&P 500 September 2009 mini-contract 119-120
5-minute chart example, 91 as continuation signals, 111
Bearish 5-0 pattern PRZ bearish AB=CD patterns, 117-118
AMEX Oil Index 5-minute chart example, 90 bullish AB=CD patterns, 112-116
Natural Gas March 2010 contract Adobe Software daily chart example, 87
15-minute chart example, 96 advanced Harmonic Trading, benefits of, 8
S&P 500 September 2009 mini-contract Alternate Bat pattern, 102-109
5-minute chart example, 92 Alternate Bearish Bat pattern, 106-109, 244-246
Bearish 5-0 pattern with Bearish AB=CD, 94-95 Alternate Bullish Bat pattern, 103-105, 192-194
Bullish 5-0 pattern, 79, 201-203 AMEX gas and oil exchange daily chart example, 68
Adobe Software daily chart example, 87 AMEX Oil Index 5-minute chart example, 89-90
Eurodollar 5-minute chart example, 80 Apple 5-minute chart example, 132-133
Australian dollar 15-minute chart example, 130
275

276 Harmonic Trading: Volume Two
B Bearish 5-0 pattern with Bearish AB=CD, 94-95
Bearish AB=CD BAMM, 156-158
Baker-Hughes weekly chart example, 77
Bearish AB=CD pattern, 117-118, 152
BAMM (Bat Action Magnet Move), 141.See also
Bearish BAMM breakdown, 148-149
RSI BAMM
Bearish BAMM breakdown in CD leg, 150-151
AB=CD BAMM, 152
Bearish Bat pattern, 26-28, 144, 247-249
Bearish AB=CD BAMM, 156-158
Bearish Butterfly pattern, 241-243
Bullish AB=CD BAMM, 153-155
Bearish Crab pattern, 256-257
Bearish BAMM breakdown, 148-149
bearish extension patterns within bearish trends,
Bearish BAMM breakdown in CD leg, 150-151
131-133
Bullish BAMM breakout, 144-145
bearish failed patterns against bullish trends, 137-139
Bullish BAMM breakout in CD leg, 146-147
Bearish Gartley pattern, 16-18, 250-252
RSI BAMM, harmonic patterns versus, 272
bearish harmonic impulse waves
Bat pattern.See alsoAlternate Bat pattern
extreme bearish harmonic impulse waves, 65
Alternate Bearish Bat pattern, 244-246
extreme bearish harmonic impulse waves at
Alternate Bullish Bat pattern, 192-194
0.886 retracement, 69-70
Bearish Bat pattern, 144, 247-249
bearish harmonic ratio progression, 57
Bullish Bat pattern, 41-43, 148, 195-197
bearish indicator structures, 220
bear market of 2000
complex structures, 223, 225
Dow Jones Industrial Average in, 33
impulsive structures, 221-222
9/11 crash, 36-37
bearish patterns within bearish trends, 129-130
bearish retracements in daily chart
Bearish Reciprocal AB=CD pattern, 76-77, 121-122
example, 35
bearish retracements, 35
Bullish AB=CD pattern, 37, 39-40
Bearish RSI BAMM, 218-219
Bullish Bat pattern, 41-43
1.13 versus 1.618 Confirmation Point
bullish retracements in weekly chart
extensions, 237
example, 34
Alternate Bearish Bat pattern, 244-246
lessons learned, 47
Bearish 5-0 pattern, 253-254
harmonic patterns in, 12-13
Bearish Bat pattern, 247-249
Harmonic Trading success/failure, 48
Bearish Butterfly pattern, 241-243
lessons learned, 47
Bearish Crab pattern, 256-257
market positions during, 15-16
Bearish Gartley pattern, 250-252
NASDAQ Composite in, 23, 32
British Pound/USD weekly chart example, 219
Bearish Bat pattern, 26-28
Confirmation Point extensions, 238-239
decline from 5000, 25
Deep Bearish Crab pattern, 258-260
failed Bullish Gartley pattern, 29-31
divergence of RSI versus price, 231-232, 235
harmonic scenario failures, 31-32
indicator structures, 220
rally to 5000, 23, 25
complex structures, 223, 225
pattern violations, 13-14
impulsive structures, 221-222
S&P 500 in, 16, 23
inital RSI test, 220
Bearish Gartley pattern, 16, 18
M-type complex RSI structure completion, 220
Bullish AB=CD pattern pattern, 18-21
pattern completion, 240-241
Bullish Bat pattern pattern, 21-22
reaction of RSI and price, 227-228, 236
testing of Harmonic Trading techniques in, 14-15
Reversal Acceleration Trigger, 261-263, 265
bear market of 2008
RSI BAMM Confirmation Bar, 183, 233-234
Dow Jones Industrial Average in, 44-46
RSI BAMM Trigger Bar, 225-226
Harmonic Trading success/failure, 48
RSI retest type, 229-230
lessons learned, 47
stop loss limits, 265-268
bearish 1.13 extension (failed wave), 61-62
bearish trends, bullish failed patterns against, 134-136
Bearish 5-0 pattern, 88, 253-254
Boeing daily chart example, 259-260
AMEX Oil Index 5-minute chart example, 89
breakdowns, 142-143
Dow Jones Industrial Average 1-minute chart
Bearish BAMM breakdown, 148-149
example, 93
Bearish BAMM breakdown in CD leg, 150-151
failed Bearish 5-0 pattern, 100-101
breakouts, 142-143
S&P 500 September 2009 mini-contract 5-minute
Bullish BAMM breakout, 144-145
chart example, 91
Bullish BAMM breakout in CD leg, 146-147
Bearish 5-0 pattern PRZ
British Pound 5-minute chart example, 202-203
AMEX Oil Index 5-minute chart example, 90
British Pound 15-minute chart example, 128
Natural Gas March 2010 contract 15-minute
British Pound/USD weekly chart example
chart example, 96
1.13 extension at RSI BAMM Confirmation
S&P 500 September 2009 mini-contract 5-minute
Point, 239
chart example, 92

Index 277
Bearish Butterfly PRZ at RSI BAMM Bullish 5-0 pattern, 201-203
Confirmation Point, 243 Bullish Bat pattern, 195-197
Bearish Butterfly at 1.13 RSI BAMM Confirmation Bullish Butterfly pattern, 188-191
Point, 242 Bullish Crab pattern, 205-207
bearish complex indicator structure, 224 Bullish Gartley pattern, 198-200
bearish impulse indicator structure, 222 bullish indicator structures, 169-174
Bearish RSI BAMM, 219 Bullish RSI BAMM Trigger Bar, 186
Bearish RSI BAMM Confirmation Bar, 234 bullish W-type complex RSI structure
Bearish RSI BAMM Trigger Bar, 226 completion, 169
divergence phase of RSI versus price, 232 Chevron-Texaco daily chart example, 168
reaction of RSI and price, 228, 236 Confirmation Point extensions, 185
bullish 1.13 extension (failed wave), 59-60 Deep Bullish Crab pattern, 208-210
Bullish 5-0 pattern, 79, 201-203 divergence of RSI versus price, 180-182
Adobe Software daily chart example, 87 inital RSI test, 169
Eurodollar 5-minute chart example, 80 pattern completion, 187
failed Bullish 5-0 pattern, 97-98 reaction of RSI and price, 176-177
failed Bullish 5-0 pattern PRZ, 99 Reversal Acceleration Trigger, 211-214
NASDAQ 100 March 2010 mini-contract RSI BAMM Trigger Bar, 174-175
60-minute chart example, 82 RSI retest type, 178-179
S&P 500 June 2009 mini-contract 15-minute trade execution at, 187
chart example, 83 violations and stop loss factors, 215-217
S&P 500 Trust daily chart example, 81 Bullish RSI BAMM Trigger Bar, 186
Bullish 5-0 pattern PRZ, 84 bullish trends, bearish failed patterns against, 137-139
Bullish 5-0 pattern with Bullish AB=CD, 85-86 Butterfly patterns
Bullish AB=CD BAMM, 153-155 Bearish Butterfly pattern, 241-243
Bullish AB=CD pattern Bullish Butterfly pattern, 188-191
bear market of 2000
Dow Jones Industrial Average in, 37-40 C
S&P 500 in, 18-21
Chevron-Texaco daily chart example
as continuation signals, 112-116
Bearish RSI BAMM Confirmation Bar, 183
Bullish BAMM breakout, 144-145
Bullish Butterfly at Bullish RSI BAMM
Bullish BAMM breakout in CD leg, 146-147
Confirmation Point, 189
Bullish Bat pattern, 148, 195-197
Bullish Butterfly pattern, 190
bear market of 2000
Bullish Butterfly PRZ at RSI BAMM Confirmation
Dow Jones Industrial Average in, 41-43
Point, 191
S&P 500 in, 21-22
bullish complex indicator structure, 173-174
Bullish Butterfly pattern, 188-191
bullish impulse indicator structure, 171-172
bullish complex indicator stuctures, 172, 174
Bullish RSI BAMM, 168
Bullish Crab pattern, 205-207
Bullish RSI BAMM Trigger Bar, 186
bullish extension patterns within bullish trends, 127-128
divergence of RSI versus price, 181-182
bullish failed patterns against bearish trends, 134-136
reaction of RSI and price, 177
Bullish Gartley pattern, 29-31, 198-200
RSI BAMM Trigger Bar, 175
bullish harmonic impulse waves
RSI retest type, 179
extreme bullish harmonic impulse waves, 63-64
Chicago Mercantile Exchange daily chart example,
extreme bullish harmonic impulse waves at 0.886
125-126
retracement, 67-68
Coca-Cola daily chart example, 206-207
bullish harmonic ratio progression, 56
complex indicator structures
bullish impulsive indicator stuctures, 170, 172
bearish structures, 223, 225
bullish indicator structures, 169
bullish complex indicator structures, 172, 174
complex indicator structures, 172, 174
Confirmation Point
impulsive indicator structures, 170, 172
1.13 RSI BAMM Confirmation Point
Bullish Reciprocal AB=CD pattern, 74-76, 119-120
Alternate Bearish Bat pattern, 244-246
bullish retracement patterns
Alternate Bullish Bat pattern, 192-194
within bullish trends, 124-126
Bearish 5-0 pattern, 253-254
Dow Jones Industrial Average weekly chart
Bearish Bat pattern, 247-249
example, 34
Bearish Butterfly pattern, 241-243
Bullish RSI BAMM, 167
Bearish Gartley pattern, 250-252
1.13 versus 1.618 Confirmation Point
Bullish 5-0 pattern, 201-203
extensions, 184
Bullish Bat pattern, 195-197
Alternate Bullish Bat pattern, 192-194
Bullish Butterfly pattern, 188-191
Bearish RSI BAMM Confirmation Bar, 183
Bullish Gartley pattern, 198-200

278 Harmonic Trading: Volume Two
1.13 versus 1.618 extensions, 184, 237 E
1.618 RSI BAMM Confirmation Point, 204, 255
Elliott Wave Principle(Frost and Prechter), 49
Bearish Crab pattern, 256-257
Eurodollar 5-minute chart example
Bullish Crab pattern, 205-207
Alternate Bearish Bat pattern, 107
Deep Bearish Crab pattern, 258-260
Alternate Bullish Bat pattern, 105
Deep Bullish Crab pattern, 208-210
Bearish Gartley pattern, 251-252
Bearish RSI BAMM Confirmation Bar, 183
Bullish 5-0 pattern, 80
Bearish RSI BAMM extensions, 238-239
Eurodollar daily chart example, bearish 1.13 extension
Bullish RSI BAMM extensions, 185, 187
(failed wave), 62
Reversal Acceleration Trigger, 211-214, 261-265
Eurodollar weekly chart example
confirmation signals, 8
Bearish BAMM breakdown, 149
continuation signals, AB=CD patterns as, 111
Bearish BAMM breakdown in CD leg, 151
bearish AB=CD patterns, 117-118
extension patterns
bullish AB=CD patterns, 112-113, 115-116
bearish extension patterns within bearish trends,
Crab patterns
131-133
Bearish Crab pattern, 256-257
bearish retracement patterns within bearish
bearish patterns within bearish trends, 131-133
trends, 129-130
Bullish Crab pattern, 205-207
bullish extension patterns within bullish trends,
bullish patterns within bullish trends, 127-128
127-128
Deep Bearish Crab pattern, 258-260
extensions
Deep Bullish Crab pattern, 208-210
1.13 versus 1.618 Confirmation Point extensions,
D 184, 237
Bearish RSI BAMM Confirmation Point
decline in NASDAQ Composite (bear market of 2000), extensions, 238-239
25-28 Bullish RSI BAMM Confirmation Point
Deep Bearish Crab pattern, 258-260 extensions, 185-187
Deep Bullish Crab pattern, 208-210 extreme bearish harmonic impulse waves, 65-66
Directional Movement Index (DMI), 163 extreme bearish harmonic impulse waves at 0.886
Disney daily chart example retracement, 69-70
Bullish AB=CD BAMM, 157 extreme bullish harmonic impulse waves, 63-64
Bullish AB=CD BAMM in CD leg, 158 extreme bullish harmonic impulse waves at 0.886
bullish reciprocal AB=CD patterns within retracement, 67-68
trends, 120
divergence F
importance of, 165
failed Bearish 5-0 pattern, 100-101
in RSI, 164
failed Bullish 5-0 pattern, 97-98
DMI (Directional Movement Index), 163
failed Bullish 5-0 pattern PRZ, 99
Dow Jones Industrial Average
failed harmonic patterns against trends, 133
in bear market of 2000, 33
bearish failed patterns, 137-139
9/11 crash, 36-37
bullish failed patterns, 134-136
bearish retracements in daily chart
failed wave (1.13 extension), 58
example, 35
bearish 1.13 extension, 61-62
Bullish AB=CD pattern, 37, 39-40
bullish 1.13 extension, 59-60
Bullish Bat pattern, 41-43
Family Dollar daily chart example, 257
bullish retracements in weekly chart
Fedex Corp.weekly chart example, 75-76
example, 34
feel for the markets in Harmonic Trading, 48-49
lessons learned, 47
Frost, Alfred, 49
in bear market of 2008, 44-46
future price action, signals of (bear market of 2000),
in crash of 1929, 32
13-14
Dow Jones Industrial Average 1-minute chart
example, 93
G
Dow Jones Industrial Average weekly chart example, 53
Dow Jones Industrials ETF weekly chart example, 104 Gartley patterns
Dow Jones Transportation Average daily chart Bearish Gartley pattern, 250-252
example, 138-139 bearish patterns within bearish trends, 129-130
Dow Theory, 55 bullish Gartley in bearish trend, 135
downward patterns, 129-130 Bullish Gartley pattern, 198-200
bullish Gartley PRZ in bearish trend, 136
bullish patterns within bullish trends, 124-126
failed bearish Gartley in bullish trend, 138
failed bearish Gartley PRZ in bullish trend, 139

Index 279
Gartley, H.M., 162 Bullish Gartley PRZ at RSI BAMM Confirmation
General Motors daily chart example, 98 Point, 200
General Motors weekly chart example, 99 Bullish Gartley PRZ at RSI BAMM Confirmation
Google 5-minute chart example Point with Acceleration Trigger, 214
Bearish 5-0 pattern PRZ at RSI BAMM impulsive indicator structures
Confirmation Point with Acceleration bearish structures, 221-222
Trigger, 264 bullish impulsive indicator structures, 170, 172
Bullish 1.13 extension (failed wave), 60 Intercontinental Exchange 5-minute chart example,
Google 15-minute chart example, bearish 5-0 pattern 266-267
at RSI BAMM extension, 254 Intercontinental Exchange 60-minute chart example, 268
Intercontinental Exchange daily chart example, 101
H
Japanese Yen 60-minute chart example, 86, 209-210
harmonic impulse waves, 57, 71
1.13 extension (failed wave), 58-62
L–M
bearish harmonic impulse waves, 65, 69-70
bullish harmonic impulse waves, 63-64, 67-68 light sweet crude March 2006 contract 15-minute chart
harmonic patterns.See also names of specific patterns example, 66
against trends, 133 long-term harmonic projections, 49-53
bearish failed patterns, 137-139
M-type complex RSI structure completion (Bearish RSI
bullish failed patterns, 134-136
BAMM), 220
in bear market of 2000, 12-13
magnet effect in harmonic patterns, 142.See alsoBAMM
breakouts/breakdowns, 142-143
(Bat Action Magnet Move)
magnet effect in, 142
market gurus, 5-6
RSI BAMM versus, 272
market positions during bear market of 2000, 15-16
within trends, 111, 123
AB=CD patterns as continuation signals,
N–O
111-118
bearish extension patterns, 131-133 NASDAQ 100 March 2010 mini-contract 60-minute
bearish reciprocal AB=CD patterns, 121-122 chart example (Bullish 5-0 pattern), 82
bearish retracement patterns, 129-130 NASDAQ Composite daily chart example
bullish extension patterns, 127-128 Bearish Bat pattern
bullish reciprocal AB=CD patterns, 119-120 August 2000, 27
bullish retracement patterns, 124-126 January 2001, 28
harmonic ratio progression, 55-56 March 2000, 26
bearish harmonic ratio progression, 57 bullish AB=CD patterns as continuation signals,
bullish harmonic ratio progression, 56 113-116
harmonic scenario failures, NASDAQ Composite in rally to 5000, 24
bear market of 2000, 31-32 NASDAQ Composite in bear market of 2000, 23, 32
Harmonic Trading Bearish Bat pattern, 26-28
benefits of, 8 decline from 5000, 25
defined, 271 failed Bullish Gartley pattern, 29-31
feel for the markets in, 48-49 harmonic scenario failures, 31-32
lessons learned from bear markets rally to 5000, 23, 25
of 2000/2008, 47 NASDAQ Composite weekly chart example
long-term projections, 49-53 failed Bullish Gartley pattern, 30
misinformation about, 4-5 failed Bullish Gartley PRZ pattern, 31
role of trader in, 7 long-term harmonic projections for 2025, 52
success/failure in bear markets of 2000/2008, 48 Natural Gas March 2010 contract 15-minute chart
technical indicators and, 161-163 example
testing in bear market of 2000, 14-15 Bearish 5-0 pattern PRZ, 96
Home Depot daily chart example, 154 Bearish 5-0 pattern with Bearish AB=CD, 95
Home Depot weekly chart example, 155 New Concepts and Trading Systems(Wilder), 169, 220
How to Make the Stock Market Make Money for You New Concepts in Technical Trading Systems(Wilder),
(Warren), 48 163-165, 182
Hurst, J.M., 55 Nike daily chart example (Alternate Bearish Bat
pattern), 108-109
I–J
P
IBM weekly chart example
Bullish Gartley at RSI BAMM Confirmation pattern completion
Point, 199 Bearish RSI BAMM, 240-241
Bullish RSI BAMM, 187

280 Harmonic Trading: Volume Two
pattern violations.See alsofailed harmonic patterns S&P 500 June 2009 mini-contract 15-minute chart
against trends example, 83-84
in bear market of 2000, 13-14 S&P 500 March 2010 Mini-contract 15-minute chart
of Bullish RSI BAMM, 215-217 example
Philadelphia gold and silver index daily chart example Bearish Bat at RSI BAMM extension, 248
(extreme bearish harmonic impulse wave at 0.886 Bearish Bat PRZ at RSI BAMM extension, 249
retracement), 70 Bullish Crab and Bullish RSI BAMM failure, 216
Philadelphia Semiconductor Index 5-minute chart Bullish Crab PRZ and Bullish RSI BAMM
example (Bullish Bat PRA at RSI BAMM failure, 217
Confirmation Point), 197 S&P 500 September 2009 mini-contract 5-minute chart
Philadelphia Semiconductor Index chart example example, 91-92
(Bullish Bat pattern), 196 S&P 500 Trust daily chart example, 81
Prechter, Robert, 49 S&P 500 weekly chart example
predictions, 49-53 Bearish Gartley pattern, 16, 18
price action, future signals (bear market of 2000), 13-14 bearish reciprocal AB=CD patterns within
Principle of Harmonicity, 55 trends, 122
Profits in the Stock Market(Gartley), 162 Bullish AB=CD pattern, 18-21
Bullish Bat pattern, 21-22
Q–R
long-term harmonic projections for 2025, 50-51
September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks, effect on Dow
rally in NASDAQ Composite (bear market of 2000),
Jones Industrial Average, 36-37
23, 25
stop loss limits
Reciprocal AB=CD pattern, 74
for Bearish RSI BAMM, 265-268
Bearish Reciprocal AB=CD pattern, 76-77,
for Bullish RSI BAMM, 215-217
121-122
Bullish Reciprocal AB=CD pattern, 74-76, 119-120
T–Z
Relative Strength Index, 162-164
retracements technical indicators, Harmonic Trading and, 161-163
bearish retracements, 35 testing Harmonic Trading techniques in bear market
bullish retracements of 2000, 14-15
Dow Jones Industrial Average weekly chart Toll Brothers weekly chart example, 118
example, 34 trade execution at Bullish RSI BAMM Confirmation
within bullish trends, 124-126 Point, 187
Reversal Acceleration Trigger, 211-214, 261-263, 265 traders, role in Harmonic Trading, 7
RSI (Relative Strength Index), 162-164 trends
RSI BAMM, 3.See alsoBearish RSIBAMM; harmonic patterns against, 133
Bullish RSIBAMM bearish failed patterns, 137-139
explained, 164-165 bullish failed patterns, 134-136
harmonic patterns versus, 272 harmonic patterns within, 111, 123
steps in, 269 AB=CD patterns as continuation signals,
tips for, 269-270 111-118
uniqueness of, 166 bearish extension patterns, 131-133
RSI BAMM Confirmation Bar, 233-234 bearish reciprocal AB=CD patterns,
RSI BAMM Trigger Bar, 174-175, 225-226 121-122
bearish retracement patterns, 129-130
S bullish extension patterns, 127-128
bullish reciprocal AB=CD patterns, 119-120
S&P 500 Continuous Contract daily chart example
bullish retracement patterns, 124-126
Bullish BAMM breakout, 145
trigger bar, 174-175, 225-226
Bullish BAMM breakout in CD leg, 147
S&P 500 December 2009 mini-contract 60-minute violations.Seepattern violations
chart example, 64
S&P 500 ETF 5-minute chart example, 245-246 W-type complex RSI structure completion (Bullish RSI
S&P 500 in bear market of 2000, 16, 23 BAMM), 169
Bearish Gartley pattern, 16, 18 Warren, Ted, 48
Bullish AB=CD pattern, 18-21 Wilder, Welles, 163-165, 169, 182, 220
Bullish Bat pattern, 21-22
S&P 500 June 2009 mini-contract 5-minute chart example
Alternate Bullish Bat with Bullish RSI BAMM,
193-194
bullish Gartley pattern in bearish trend, 135
bullish Gartley PRZ pattern in bearish trend, 136

